1:Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind and said:
2:"Who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? 
3:Dress for action like a man; I will question you, and you make it known to me. 
4:"Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you have understanding. 
5:Who determined its measurements-surely you know! Or who stretched the line upon it? 
6:On what were its bases sunk, or who laid its cornerstone, 
7:when the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy? 
8:"Or who shut in the sea with doors when it burst out from the womb, 
9:when I made clouds its garment and thick darkness its swaddling band, 
10:and prescribed limits for it and set bars and doors, 
11:and said, 'Thus far shall you come, and no farther, and here shall your proud waves be stayed'? 
12:"Have you commanded the morning since your days began, and caused the dawn to know its place, 
13:that it might take hold of the skirts of the earth, and the wicked be shaken out of it? 
14:It is changed like clay under the seal, and its features stand out like a garment. 
15:From the wicked their light is withheld, and their uplifted arm is broken. 
16:"Have you entered into the springs of the sea, or walked in the recesses of the deep? 
17:Have the gates of death been revealed to you, or have you seen the gates of deep darkness? 
18:Have you comprehended the expanse of the earth? Declare, if you know all this. 
19:"Where is the way to the dwelling of light, and where is the place of darkness, 
20:that you may take it to its territory and that you may discern the paths to its home? 
21:You know, for you were born then, and the number of your days is great! 
22:"Have you entered the storehouses of the snow, or have you seen the storehouses of the hail, 
23:which I have reserved for the time of trouble, for the day of battle and war? 
24:What is the way to the place where the light is distributed, or where the east wind is scattered upon the earth? 
25:"Who has cleft a channel for the torrents of rain and a way for the thunderbolt, 
26:to bring rain on a land where no man is, on the desert in which there is no man, 
27:to satisfy the waste and desolate land, and to make the ground sprout with grass? 
28:"Has the rain a father, or who has begotten the drops of dew? 
29:From whose womb did the ice come forth, and who has given birth to the frost of heaven? 
30:The waters become hard like stone, and the face of the deep is frozen. 
31:"Can you bind the chains of the Pleiades or loose the cords of Orion? 
32:Can you lead forth the Mazzaroth in their season, or can you guide the Bear with its children? 
33:Do you know the ordinances of the heavens? Can you establish their rule on the earth? 
34:"Can you lift up your voice to the clouds, that a flood of waters may cover you? 
35:Can you send forth lightnings, that they may go and say to you, 'Here we are'? 
36:Who has put wisdom in the inward parts or given understanding to the mind? 
37:Who can number the clouds by wisdom? Or who can tilt the waterskins of the heavens, 
38:when the dust runs into a mass and the clods stick fast together? 
39:"Can you hunt the prey for the lion, or satisfy the appetite of the young lions, 
40:when they crouch in their dens or lie in wait in their thicket? 
41:Who provides for the raven its prey, when its young ones cry to God for help, and wander about for lack of food? 
