1:Wine is a mocker, strong drink a brawler, and whoever is led astray by it is not wise. 
2:The terror of a king is like the growling of a lion; whoever provokes him to anger forfeits his life. 
3:It is an honor for a man to keep aloof from strife, but every fool will be quarreling. 
4:The sluggard does not plow in the autumn; he will seek at harvest and have nothing. 
5:The purpose in a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out. 
6:Many a man proclaims his own steadfast love, but a faithful man who can find? 
7:The righteous who walks in his integrity- blessed are his children after him! 
8:A king who sits on the throne of judgment winnows all evil with his eyes. 
9:Who can say, "I have made my heart pure; I am clean from my sin"? 
10:Unequal weights and unequal measures are both alike an abomination to the LORD. 
11:Even a child makes himself known by his acts, by whether his conduct is pure and upright. 
12:The hearing ear and the seeing eye, the LORD has made them both. 
13:Love not sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes, and you will have plenty of bread. 
14:"Bad, bad," says the buyer, but when he goes away, then he boasts. 
15:There is gold and abundance of costly stones, but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel. 
16:Take a man's garment when he has put up security for a stranger, and hold it in pledge when he puts up security for foreigners. 
17:Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward his mouth will be full of gravel. 
18:Plans are established by counsel; by wise guidance wage war. 
19:Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with a simple babbler. 
20:If one curses his father or his mother, his lamp will be put out in utter darkness. 
21:An inheritance gained hastily in the beginning will not be blessed in the end. 
22:Do not say, "I will repay evil"; wait for the LORD, and he will deliver you. 
23:Unequal weights are an abomination to the LORD, and false scales are not good. 
24:A man's steps are from the LORD; how then can man understand his way? 
25:It is a snare to say rashly, "It is holy," and to reflect only after making vows. 
26:A wise king winnows the wicked and drives the wheel over them. 
27:The spirit of man is the lamp of the LORD, searching all his innermost parts. 
28:Steadfast love and faithfulness preserve the king, and by steadfast love his throne is upheld. 
29:The glory of young men is their strength, but the splendor of old men is their gray hair. 
30:Blows that wound cleanse away evil; strokes make clean the innermost parts. 
