1:And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
2:"Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, I am the LORD your God.
3:You shall not do as they do in the land of Egypt, where you lived, and you shall not do as they do in the land of Canaan, to which I am bringing you. You shall not walk in their statutes.
4:You shall follow my rules and keep my statutes and walk in them. I am the LORD your God.
5:You shall therefore keep my statutes and my rules; if a person does them, he shall live by them: I am the LORD.
6:"None of you shall approach any one of his close relatives to uncover nakedness. I am the LORD.
7:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father, which is the nakedness of your mother; she is your mother, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
8:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is your father's nakedness.
9:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, your father's daughter or your mother's daughter, whether brought up in the family or in another home.
10:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter or of your daughter's daughter, for their nakedness is your own nakedness.
11:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, brought up in your father's family, since she is your sister.
12:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's relative.
13:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, for she is your mother's relative.
14:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother, that is, you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt.
15:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife, you shall not uncover her nakedness.
16:You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness.
17:You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and of her daughter, and you shall not take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness; they are relatives; it is depravity.
18:And you shall not take a woman as a rival wife to her sister, uncovering her nakedness while her sister is still alive.
19:"You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual uncleanness.
20:And you shall not lie sexually with your neighbor's wife and so make yourself unclean with her.
21:You shall not give any of your children to offer them to Molech, and so profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
22:You shall not lie with a male as with a woman; it is an abomination.
23:And you shall not lie with any animal and so make yourself unclean with it, neither shall any woman give herself to an animal to lie with it: it is perversion.
24:"Do not make yourselves unclean by any of these things, for by all these the nations I am driving out before you have become unclean,
25:and the land became unclean, so that I punished its iniquity, and the land vomited out its inhabitants.
26:But you shall keep my statutes and my rules and do none of these abominations, either the native or the stranger who sojourns among you
27:(for the people of the land, who were before you, did all of these abominations, so that the land became unclean),
28:lest the land vomit you out when you make it unclean, as it vomited out the nation that was before you.
29:For everyone who does any of these abominations, the persons who do them shall be cut off from among their people.
30:So keep my charge never to practice any of these abominable customs that were practiced before you, and never to make yourselves unclean by them: I am the LORD your God."
