1:The plans of the heart belong to man, but the answer of the tongue is from the LORD. 
2:All the ways of a man are pure in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the spirit. 
3:Commit your work to the LORD, and your plans will be established. 
4:The LORD has made everything for its purpose, even the wicked for the day of trouble. 
5:Everyone who is arrogant in heart is an abomination to the LORD; be assured, he will not go unpunished. 
6:By steadfast love and faithfulness iniquity is atoned for, and by the fear of the LORD one turns away from evil. 
7:When a man's ways please the LORD, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. 
8:Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues with injustice. 
9:The heart of man plans his way, but the LORD establishes his steps. 
10:An oracle is on the lips of a king; his mouth does not sin in judgment. 
11:A just balance and scales are the LORD's; all the weights in the bag are his work. 
12:It is an abomination to kings to do evil, for the throne is established by righteousness. 
13:Righteous lips are the delight of a king, and he loves him who speaks what is right. 
14:A king's wrath is a messenger of death, and a wise man will appease it. 
15:In the light of a king's face there is life, and his favor is like the clouds that bring the spring rain. 
16:How much better to get wisdom than gold! To get understanding is to be chosen rather than silver. 
17:The highway of the upright turns aside from evil; whoever guards his way preserves his life. 
18:Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. 
19:It is better to be of a lowly spirit with the poor than to divide the spoil with the proud. 
20:Whoever gives thought to the word will discover good, and blessed is he who trusts in the LORD. 
21:The wise of heart is called discerning, and sweetness of speech increases persuasiveness. 
22:Good sense is a fountain of life to him who has it, but the instruction of fools is folly. 
23:The heart of the wise makes his speech judicious and adds persuasiveness to his lips. 
24:Gracious words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the body. 
25:There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death. 
26:A worker's appetite works for him; his mouth urges him on. 
27:A worthless man plots evil, and his speech is like a scorching fire. 
28:A dishonest man spreads strife, and a whisperer separates close friends. 
29:A man of violence entices his neighbor and leads him in a way that is not good. 
30:Whoever winks his eyes plans dishonest things; he who purses his lips brings evil to pass. 
31:Gray hair is a crown of glory; it is gained in a righteous life. 
32:Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty, and he who rules his spirit than he who takes a city. 
33:The lot is cast into the lap, but its every decision is from the LORD. 
