1:Hear my prayer, O LORD; let my cry come to you! 
2:Do not hide your face from me in the day of my distress! Incline your ear to me; answer me speedily in the day when I call! 
3:For my days pass away like smoke, and my bones burn like a furnace. 
4:My heart is struck down like grass and has withered; I forget to eat my bread. 
5:Because of my loud groaning my bones cling to my flesh. 
6:I am like a desert owl of the wilderness, like an owl of the waste places; 
7:I lie awake; I am like a lonely sparrow on the housetop. 
8:All the day my enemies taunt me; those who deride me use my name for a curse. 
9:For I eat ashes like bread and mingle tears with my drink, 
10:because of your indignation and anger; for you have taken me up and thrown me down. 
11:My days are like an evening shadow; I wither away like grass. 
12:But you, O LORD, are enthroned forever; you are remembered throughout all generations. 
13:You will arise and have pity on Zion; it is the time to favor her; the appointed time has come. 
14:For your servants hold her stones dear and have pity on her dust. 
15:Nations will fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth will fear your glory. 
16:For the LORD builds up Zion; he appears in his glory; 
17:he regards the prayer of the destitute and does not despise their prayer. 
18:Let this be recorded for a generation to come, so that a people yet to be created may praise the LORD: 
19:that he looked down from his holy height; from heaven the LORD looked at the earth, 
20:to hear the groans of the prisoners, to set free those who were doomed to die, 
21:that they may declare in Zion the name of the LORD, and in Jerusalem his praise, 
22:when peoples gather together, and kingdoms, to worship the LORD. 
23:He has broken my strength in midcourse; he has shortened my days. 
24:"O my God," I say, "take me not away in the midst of my days- you whose years endure throughout all generations!" 
25:Of old you laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of your hands. 
26:They will perish, but you will remain; they will all wear out like a garment. You will change them like a robe, and they will pass away, 
27:but you are the same, and your years have no end. 
28:The children of your servants shall dwell secure; their offspring shall be established before you. 
