1:The wisest of women builds her house, but folly with her own hands tears it down. 
2:Whoever walks in uprightness fears the LORD, but he who is devious in his ways despises him. 
3:By the mouth of a fool comes a rod for his back, but the lips of the wise will preserve them. 
4:Where there are no oxen, the manger is clean, but abundant crops come by the strength of the ox. 
5:A faithful witness does not lie, but a false witness breathes out lies. 
6:A scoffer seeks wisdom in vain, but knowledge is easy for a man of understanding. 
7:Leave the presence of a fool, for there you do not meet words of knowledge. 
8:The wisdom of the prudent is to discern his way, but the folly of fools is deceiving. 
9:Fools mock at the guilt offering, but the upright enjoy acceptance. 
10:The heart knows its own bitterness, and no stranger shares its joy. 
11:The house of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish. 
12:There is a way that seems right to a man, but its end is the way to death. 
13:Even in laughter the heart may ache, and the end of joy may be grief. 
14:The backslider in heart will be filled with the fruit of his ways, and a good man will be filled with the fruit of his ways. 
15:The simple believes everything, but the prudent gives thought to his steps. 
16:One who is wise is cautious and turns away from evil, but a fool is reckless and careless. 
17:A man of quick temper acts foolishly, and a man of evil devices is hated. 
18:The simple inherit folly, but the prudent are crowned with knowledge. 
19:The evil bow down before the good, the wicked at the gates of the righteous. 
20:The poor is disliked even by his neighbor, but the rich has many friends. 
21:Whoever despises his neighbor is a sinner, but blessed is he who is generous to the poor. 
22:Do they not go astray who devise evil? Those who devise good meet steadfast love and faithfulness. 
23:In all toil there is profit, but mere talk tends only to poverty. 
24:The crown of the wise is their wealth, but the folly of fools brings folly. 
25:A truthful witness saves lives, but one who breathes out lies is deceitful. 
26:In the fear of the LORD one has strong confidence, and his children will have a refuge. 
27:The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death. 
28:In a multitude of people is the glory of a king, but without people a prince is ruined. 
29:Whoever is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly. 
30:A tranquil heart gives life to the flesh, but envy makes the bones rot. 
31:Whoever oppresses a poor man insults his Maker, but he who is generous to the needy honors him. 
32:The wicked is overthrown through his evildoing, but the righteous finds refuge in his death. 
33:Wisdom rests in the heart of a man of understanding, but it makes itself known even in the midst of fools. 
34:Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. 
35:A servant who deals wisely has the king's favor, but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully. 
