1:Whoever loves discipline loves knowledge, but he who hates reproof is stupid. 
2:A good man obtains favor from the LORD, but a man of evil devices he condemns. 
3:No one is established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous will never be moved. 
4:An excellent wife is the crown of her husband, but she who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones. 
5:The thoughts of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful. 
6:The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright delivers them. 
7:The wicked are overthrown and are no more, but the house of the righteous will stand. 
8:A man is commended according to his good sense, but one of twisted mind is despised. 
9:Better to be lowly and have a servant than to play the great man and lack bread. 
10:Whoever is righteous has regard for the life of his beast, but the mercy of the wicked is cruel. 
11:Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits lacks sense. 
12:Whoever is wicked covets the spoil of evildoers, but the root of the righteous bears fruit. 
13:An evil man is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the righteous escapes from trouble. 
14:From the fruit of his mouth a man is satisfied with good, and the work of a man's hand comes back to him. 
15:The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice. 
16:The vexation of a fool is known at once, but the prudent ignores an insult. 
17:Whoever speaks the truth gives honest evidence, but a false witness utters deceit. 
18:There is one whose rash words are like sword thrusts, but the tongue of the wise brings healing. 
19:Truthful lips endure forever, but a lying tongue is but for a moment. 
20:Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but those who plan peace have joy. 
21:No ill befalls the righteous, but the wicked are filled with trouble. 
22:Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD, but those who act faithfully are his delight. 
23:A prudent man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims folly. 
24:The hand of the diligent will rule, while the slothful will be put to forced labor. 
25:Anxiety in a man's heart weighs him down, but a good word makes him glad. 
26:One who is righteous is a guide to his neighbor, but the way of the wicked leads them astray. 
27:Whoever is slothful will not roast his game, but the diligent man will get precious wealth. 
28:In the path of righteousness is life, and in its pathway there is no death. 
