1:Woe is me! For I have become as when the summer fruit has been gathered, as when the grapes have been gleaned: there is no cluster to eat, no first-ripe fig that my soul desires. 
2:The godly has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among mankind; they all lie in wait for blood, and each hunts the other with a net. 
3:Their hands are on what is evil, to do it well; the prince and the judge ask for a bribe, and the great man utters the evil desire of his soul; thus they weave it together. 
4:The best of them is like a brier, the most upright of them a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen, of your punishment, has come; now their confusion is at hand. 
5:Put no trust in a neighbor; have no confidence in a friend; guard the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your arms; 
6:for the son treats the father with contempt, the daughter rises up against her mother, the daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man's enemies are the men of his own house. 
7:But as for me, I will look to the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me. 
8:Rejoice not over me, O my enemy; when I fall, I shall rise; when I sit in darkness, the LORD will be a light to me. 
9:I will bear the indignation of the LORD because I have sinned against him, until he pleads my cause and executes judgment for me. He will bring me out to the light; I shall look upon his vindication. 
10:Then my enemy will see, and shame will cover her who said to me, "Where is the LORD your God?" My eyes will look upon her; now she will be trampled down like the mire of the streets. 
11:A day for the building of your walls! In that day the boundary shall be far extended. 
12:In that day they will come to you, from Assyria and the cities of Egypt, and from Egypt to the River, from sea to sea and from mountain to mountain. 
13:But the earth will be desolate because of its inhabitants, for the fruit of their deeds. 
14:Shepherd your people with your staff, the flock of your inheritance, who dwell alone in a forest in the midst of a garden land; let them graze in Bashan and Gilead as in the days of old. 
15:As in the days when you came out of the land of Egypt, I will show them marvelous things. 
16:The nations shall see and be ashamed of all their might; they shall lay their hands on their mouths; their ears shall be deaf; 
17:they shall lick the dust like a serpent, like the crawling things of the earth; they shall come trembling out of their strongholds; they shall turn in dread to the LORD our God, and they shall be in fear of you. 
18:Who is a God like you, pardoning iniquity and passing over transgression for the remnant of his inheritance? He does not retain his anger forever, because he delights in steadfast love. 
19:He will again have compassion on us; he will tread our iniquities underfoot. You will cast all our sins into the depths of the sea. 
20:You will show faithfulness to Jacob and steadfast love to Abraham, as you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old. 
