1:Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool. 
2:Like a sparrow in its flitting, like a swallow in its flying, a curse that is causeless does not alight. 
3:A whip for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of fools. 
4:Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself. 
5:Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own eyes. 
6:Whoever sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and drinks violence. 
7:Like a lame man's legs, which hang useless, is a proverb in the mouth of fools. 
8:Like one who binds the stone in the sling is one who gives honor to a fool. 
9:Like a thorn that goes up into the hand of a drunkard is a proverb in the mouth of fools. 
10:Like an archer who wounds everyone is one who hires a passing fool or drunkard. 
11:Like a dog that returns to his vomit is a fool who repeats his folly. 
12:Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him. 
13:The sluggard says, "There is a lion in the road! There is a lion in the streets!" 
14:As a door turns on its hinges, so does a sluggard on his bed. 
15:The sluggard buries his hand in the dish; it wears him out to bring it back to his mouth. 
16:The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can answer sensibly. 
17:Whoever meddles in a quarrel not his own is like one who takes a passing dog by the ears. 
18:Like a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death 
19:is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, "I am only joking!" 
20:For lack of wood the fire goes out, and where there is no whisperer, quarreling ceases. 
21:As charcoal to hot embers and wood to fire, so is a quarrelsome man for kindling strife. 
22:The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body. 
23:Like the glaze covering an earthen vessel are fervent lips with an evil heart. 
24:Whoever hates disguises himself with his lips and harbors deceit in his heart; 
25:when he speaks graciously, believe him not, for there are seven abominations in his heart; 
26:though his hatred be covered with deception, his wickedness will be exposed in the assembly. 
27:Whoever digs a pit will fall into it, and a stone will come back on him who starts it rolling. 
28:A lying tongue hates its victims, and a flattering mouth works ruin. 
