1:My son, keep my words and treasure up my commandments with you; 
2:keep my commandments and live; keep my teaching as the apple of your eye; 
3:bind them on your fingers; write them on the tablet of your heart. 
4:Say to wisdom, "You are my sister," and call insight your intimate friend, 
5:to keep you from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words. 
6:For at the window of my house I have looked out through my lattice, 
7:and I have seen among the simple, I have perceived among the youths, a young man lacking sense, 
8:passing along the street near her corner, taking the road to her house 
9:in the twilight, in the evening, at the time of night and darkness. 
10:And behold, the woman meets him, dressed as a prostitute, wily of heart. 
11:She is loud and wayward; her feet do not stay at home; 
12:now in the street, now in the market, and at every corner she lies in wait. 
13:She seizes him and kisses him, and with bold face she says to him, 
14:"I had to offer sacrifices, and today I have paid my vows; 
15:so now I have come out to meet you, to seek you eagerly, and I have found you. 
16:I have spread my couch with coverings, colored linens from Egyptian linen; 
17:I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon. 
18:Come, let us take our fill of love till morning; let us delight ourselves with love. 
19:For my husband is not at home; he has gone on a long journey; 
20:he took a bag of money with him; at full moon he will come home." 
21:With much seductive speech she persuades him; with her smooth talk she compels him. 
22:All at once he follows her, as an ox goes to the slaughter, or as a stag is caught fast 
23:till an arrow pierces its liver; as a bird rushes into a snare; he does not know that it will cost him his life. 
24:And now, O sons, listen to me, and be attentive to the words of my mouth. 
25:Let not your heart turn aside to her ways; do not stray into her paths, 
26:for many a victim has she laid low, and all her slain are a mighty throng. 
27:Her house is the way to Sheol, going down to the chambers of death. 
