1:Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever! 
2:Let Israel say, "His steadfast love endures forever." 
3:Let the house of Aaron say, "His steadfast love endures forever." 
4:Let those who fear the LORD say, "His steadfast love endures forever." 
5:Out of my distress I called on the LORD; the LORD answered me and set me free. 
6:The LORD is on my side; I will not fear. What can man do to me? 
7:The LORD is on my side as my helper; I shall look in triumph on those who hate me. 
8:It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in man. 
9:It is better to take refuge in the LORD than to trust in princes. 
10:All nations surrounded me; in the name of the LORD I cut them off! 
11:They surrounded me, surrounded me on every side; in the name of the LORD I cut them off! 
12:They surrounded me like bees; they went out like a fire among thorns; in the name of the LORD I cut them off! 
13:I was pushed hard, so that I was falling, but the LORD helped me. 
14:The LORD is my strength and my song; he has become my salvation. 
15:Glad songs of salvation are in the tents of the righteous: "The right hand of the LORD does valiantly, 
16:the right hand of the LORD exalts, the right hand of the LORD does valiantly!" 
17:I shall not die, but I shall live, and recount the deeds of the LORD. 
18:The LORD has disciplined me severely, but he has not given me over to death. 
19:Open to me the gates of righteousness, that I may enter through them and give thanks to the LORD. 
20:This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it. 
21:I thank you that you have answered me and have become my salvation. 
22:The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. 
23:This is the LORD's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes. 
24:This is the day that the LORD has made; let us rejoice and be glad in it. 
25:Save us, we pray, O LORD! O LORD, we pray, give us success! 
26:Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD! We bless you from the house of the LORD. 
27:The LORD is God, and he has made his light to shine upon us. Bind the festal sacrifice with cords, up to the horns of the altar! 
28:You are my God, and I will give thanks to you; you are my God; I will extol you. 
29:Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good; for his steadfast love endures forever! 
