1:"Do you know when the mountain goats give birth? Do you observe the calving of the does? 
2:Can you number the months that they fulfill, and do you know the time when they give birth, 
3:when they crouch, bring forth their offspring, and are delivered of their young? 
4:Their young ones become strong; they grow up in the open; they go out and do not return to them. 
5:"Who has let the wild donkey go free? Who has loosed the bonds of the swift donkey, 
6:to whom I have given the arid plain for his home and the salt land for his dwelling place? 
7:He scorns the tumult of the city; he hears not the shouts of the driver. 
8:He ranges the mountains as his pasture, and he searches after every green thing. 
9:"Is the wild ox willing to serve you? Will he spend the night at your manger? 
10:Can you bind him in the furrow with ropes, or will he harrow the valleys after you? 
11:Will you depend on him because his strength is great, and will you leave to him your labor? 
12:Do you have faith in him that he will return your grain and gather it to your threshing floor? 
13:"The wings of the ostrich wave proudly, but are they the pinions and plumage of love? 
14:For she leaves her eggs to the earth and lets them be warmed on the ground, 
15:forgetting that a foot may crush them and that the wild beast may trample them. 
16:She deals cruelly with her young, as if they were not hers; though her labor be in vain, yet she has no fear, 
17:because God has made her forget wisdom and given her no share in understanding. 
18:When she rouses herself to flee, she laughs at the horse and his rider. 
19:"Do you give the horse his might? Do you clothe his neck with a mane? 
20:Do you make him leap like the locust? His majestic snorting is terrifying. 
21:He paws in the valley and exults in his strength; he goes out to meet the weapons. 
22:He laughs at fear and is not dismayed; he does not turn back from the sword. 
23:Upon him rattle the quiver, the flashing spear, and the javelin. 
24:With fierceness and rage he swallows the ground; he cannot stand still at the sound of the trumpet. 
25:When the trumpet sounds, he says 'Aha!' He smells the battle from afar, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting. 
26:"Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars and spreads his wings toward the south? 
27:Is it at your command that the eagle mounts up and makes his nest on high? 
28:On the rock he dwells and makes his home, on the rocky crag and stronghold. 
29:From there he spies out the prey; his eyes behold it from far away. 
30:His young ones suck up blood, and where the slain are, there is he." 
