1:My son, if you have put up security for your neighbor, have given your pledge for a stranger, 
2:if you are snared in the words of your mouth, caught in the words of your mouth, 
3:then do this, my son, and save yourself, for you have come into the hand of your neighbor: go, hasten, and plead urgently with your neighbor. 
4:Give your eyes no sleep and your eyelids no slumber; 
5:save yourself like a gazelle from the hand of the hunter, like a bird from the hand of the fowler. 
6:Go to the ant, O sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise. 
7:Without having any chief, officer, or ruler, 
8:she prepares her bread in summer and gathers her food in harvest. 
9:How long will you lie there, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep? 
10:A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest, 
11:and poverty will come upon you like a robber, and want like an armed man. 
12:A worthless person, a wicked man, goes about with crooked speech, 
13:winks with his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger, 
14:with perverted heart devises evil, continually sowing discord; 
15:therefore calamity will come upon him suddenly; in a moment he will be broken beyond healing. 
16:There are six things that the LORD hates, seven that are an abomination to him: 
17:haughty eyes, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood, 
18:a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that make haste to run to evil, 
19:a false witness who breathes out lies, and one who sows discord among brothers. 
20:My son, keep your father's commandment, and forsake not your mother's teaching. 
21:Bind them on your heart always; tie them around your neck. 
22:When you walk, they will lead you; when you lie down, they will watch over you; and when you awake, they will talk with you. 
23:For the commandment is a lamp and the teaching a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life, 
24:to preserve you from the evil woman, from the smooth tongue of the adulteress. 
25:Do not desire her beauty in your heart, and do not let her capture you with her eyelashes; 
26:for the price of a prostitute is only a loaf of bread, but a married woman hunts down a precious life. 
27:Can a man carry fire next to his chest and his clothes not be burned? 
28:Or can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched? 
29:So is he who goes in to his neighbor's wife; none who touches her will go unpunished. 
30:People do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his appetite when he is hungry, 
31:but if he is caught, he will pay sevenfold; he will give all the goods of his house. 
32:He who commits adultery lacks sense; he who does it destroys himself. 
33:He will get wounds and dishonor, and his disgrace will not be wiped away. 
34:For jealousy makes a man furious, and he will not spare when he takes revenge. 
35:He will accept no compensation; he will refuse though you multiply gifts. 
