1:A good name is to be chosen rather than great riches, and favor is better than silver or gold. 
2:The rich and the poor meet together; the LORD is the maker of them all. 
3:The prudent sees danger and hides himself, but the simple go on and suffer for it. 
4:The reward for humility and fear of the LORD is riches and honor and life. 
5:Thorns and snares are in the way of the crooked; whoever guards his soul will keep far from them. 
6:Train up a child in the way he should go; even when he is old he will not depart from it. 
7:The rich rules over the poor, and the borrower is the slave of the lender. 
8:Whoever sows injustice will reap calamity, and the rod of his fury will fail. 
9:Whoever has a bountiful eye will be blessed, for he shares his bread with the poor. 
10:Drive out a scoffer, and strife will go out, and quarreling and abuse will cease. 
11:He who loves purity of heart, and whose speech is gracious, will have the king as his friend. 
12:The eyes of the LORD keep watch over knowledge, but he overthrows the words of the traitor. 
13:The sluggard says, "There is a lion outside! I shall be killed in the streets!" 
14:The mouth of forbidden women is a deep pit; he with whom the LORD is angry will fall into it. 
15:Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline drives it far from him. 
16:Whoever oppresses the poor to increase his own wealth, or gives to the rich, will only come to poverty. 
17:Incline your ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply your heart to my knowledge, 
18:for it will be pleasant if you keep them within you, if all of them are ready on your lips. 
19:That your trust may be in the LORD, I have made them known to you today, even to you. 
20:Have I not written for you thirty sayings of counsel and knowledge, 
21:to make you know what is right and true, that you may give a true answer to those who sent you? 
22:Do not rob the poor, because he is poor, or crush the afflicted at the gate, 
23:for the LORD will plead their cause and rob of life those who rob them. 
24:Make no friendship with a man given to anger, nor go with a wrathful man, 
25:lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare. 
26:Be not one of those who give pledges, who put up security for debts. 
27:If you have nothing with which to pay, why should your bed be taken from under you? 
28:Do not move the ancient landmark that your fathers have set. 
29:Do you see a man skillful in his work? He will stand before kings; he will not stand before obscure men. 
