1:The proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel:
2:To know wisdom and instruction, to understand words of insight, 
3:to receive instruction in wise dealing, in righteousness, justice, and equity; 
4:to give prudence to the simple, knowledge and discretion to the youth- 
5:Let the wise hear and increase in learning, and the one who understands obtain guidance, 
6:to understand a proverb and a saying, the words of the wise and their riddles. 
7:The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools despise wisdom and instruction. 
8:Hear, my son, your father's instruction, and forsake not your mother's teaching, 
9:for they are a graceful garland for your head and pendants for your neck. 
10:My son, if sinners entice you, do not consent. 
11:If they say, "Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood; let us ambush the innocent without reason; 
12:like Sheol let us swallow them alive, and whole, like those who go down to the pit; 
13:we shall find all precious goods, we shall fill our houses with plunder; 
14:throw in your lot among us; we will all have one purse"- 
15:my son, do not walk in the way with them; hold back your foot from their paths, 
16:for their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed blood. 
17:For in vain is a net spread in the sight of any bird, 
18:but these men lie in wait for their own blood; they set an ambush for their own lives. 
19:Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for unjust gain; it takes away the life of its possessors. 
20:Wisdom cries aloud in the street, in the markets she raises her voice; 
21:at the head of the noisy streets she cries out; at the entrance of the city gates she speaks: 
22:"How long, O simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and fools hate knowledge? 
23:If you turn at my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you; I will make my words known to you. 
24:Because I have called and you refused to listen, have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded, 
25:because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof, 
26:I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when terror strikes you, 
27:when terror strikes you like a storm and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you. 
28:Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me diligently but will not find me. 
29:Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the LORD, 
30:would have none of my counsel and despised all my reproof, 
31:therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way, and have their fill of their own devices. 
32:For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them; 
33:but whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease, without dread of disaster." 
