1:I am the man who has seen affliction under the rod of his wrath; 
2:he has driven and brought me into darkness without any light; 
3:surely against me he turns his hand again and again the whole day long. 
4:He has made my flesh and my skin waste away; he has broken my bones; 
5:he has besieged and enveloped me with bitterness and tribulation; 
6:he has made me dwell in darkness like the dead of long ago. 
7:He has walled me about so that I cannot escape; he has made my chains heavy; 
8:though I call and cry for help, he shuts out my prayer; 
9:he has blocked my ways with blocks of stones; he has made my paths crooked. 
10:He is a bear lying in wait for me, a lion in hiding; 
11:he turned aside my steps and tore me to pieces; he has made me desolate; 
12:he bent his bow and set me as a target for his arrow. 
13:He drove into my kidneys the arrows of his quiver; 
14:I have become the laughingstock of all peoples, the object of their taunts all day long. 
15:He has filled me with bitterness; he has sated me with wormwood. 
16:He has made my teeth grind on gravel, and made me cower in ashes; 
17:my soul is bereft of peace; I have forgotten what happiness is; 
18:so I say, "My endurance has perished; so has my hope from the LORD." 
19:Remember my affliction and my wanderings, the wormwood and the gall! 
20:My soul continually remembers it and is bowed down within me. 
21:But this I call to mind, and therefore I have hope: 
22:The steadfast love of the LORD never ceases; his mercies never come to an end; 
23:they are new every morning; great is your faithfulness. 
24:"The LORD is my portion," says my soul, "therefore I will hope in him." 
25:The LORD is good to those who wait for him, to the soul who seeks him. 
26:It is good that one should wait quietly for the salvation of the LORD. 
27:It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth. 
28:Let him sit alone in silence when it is laid on him; 
29:let him put his mouth in the dust- there may yet be hope; 
30:let him give his cheek to the one who strikes, and let him be filled with insults. 
31:For the Lord will not cast off forever, 
32:but, though he cause grief, he will have compassion according to the abundance of his steadfast love; 
33:for he does not willingly afflict or grieve the children of men. 
34:To crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth, 
35:to deny a man justice in the presence of the Most High, 
36:to subvert a man in his lawsuit, the Lord does not approve. 
37:Who has spoken and it came to pass, unless the Lord has commanded it? 
38:Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that good and bad come? 
39:Why should a living man complain, a man, about the punishment of his sins? 
40:Let us test and examine our ways, and return to the LORD! 
41:Let us lift up our hearts and hands to God in heaven: 
42:"We have transgressed and rebelled, and you have not forgiven. 
43:"You have wrapped yourself with anger and pursued us, killing without pity; 
44:you have wrapped yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can pass through. 
45:You have made us scum and garbage among the peoples. 
46:"All our enemies open their mouths against us; 
47:panic and pitfall have come upon us, devastation and destruction; 
48:my eyes flow with rivers of tears because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. 
49:"My eyes will flow without ceasing, without respite, 
50:until the LORD from heaven looks down and sees; 
51:my eyes cause me grief at the fate of all the daughters of my city. 
52:"I have been hunted like a bird by those who were my enemies without cause; 
53:they flung me alive into the pit and cast stones on me; 
54:water closed over my head; I said, 'I am lost.' 
55:"I called on your name, O LORD, from the depths of the pit; 
56:you heard my plea, 'Do not close your ear to my cry for help!' 
57:You came near when I called on you; you said, 'Do not fear!' 
58:"You have taken up my cause, O Lord; you have redeemed my life. 
59:You have seen the wrong done to me, O LORD; judge my cause. 
60:You have seen all their vengeance, all their plots against me. 
61:"You have heard their taunts, O LORD, all their plots against me. 
62:The lips and thoughts of my assailants are against me all the day long. 
63:Behold their sitting and their rising; I am the object of their taunts. 
64:"You will repay them, O LORD, according to the work of their hands. 
65:You will give them dullness of heart; your curse will be on them. 
66:You will pursue them in anger and destroy them from under your heavens, O LORD." 
