1:O LORD, you have searched me and known me! 
2:You know when I sit down and when I rise up; you discern my thoughts from afar. 
3:You search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. 
4:Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O LORD, you know it altogether. 
5:You hem me in, behind and before, and lay your hand upon me. 
6:Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high; I cannot attain it. 
7:Where shall I go from your Spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? 
8:If I ascend to heaven, you are there! If I make my bed in Sheol, you are there! 
9:If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, 
10:even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. 
11:If I say, "Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night," 
12:even the darkness is not dark to you; the night is bright as the day, for darkness is as light with you. 
13:For you formed my inward parts; you knitted me together in my mother's womb. 
14:I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works; my soul knows it very well. 
15:My frame was not hidden from you, when I was being made in secret, intricately woven in the depths of the earth. 
16:Your eyes saw my unformed substance; in your book were written, every one of them, the days that were formed for me, when as yet there was none of them. 
17:How precious to me are your thoughts, O God! How vast is the sum of them! 
18:If I would count them, they are more than the sand. I awake, and I am still with you. 
19:Oh that you would slay the wicked, O God! O men of blood, depart from me! 
20:They speak against you with malicious intent; your enemies take your name in vain! 
21:Do I not hate those who hate you, O LORD? And do I not loathe those who rise up against you? 
22:I hate them with complete hatred; I count them my enemies. 
23:Search me, O God, and know my heart! Try me and know my thoughts! 
24:And see if there be any grievous way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting! 
