1:Then Job answered and said:
2:"Oh that my vexation were weighed, and all my calamity laid in the balances! 
3:For then it would be heavier than the sand of the sea; therefore my words have been rash. 
4:For the arrows of the Almighty are in me; my spirit drinks their poison; the terrors of God are arrayed against me. 
5:Does the wild donkey bray when he has grass, or the ox low over his fodder? 
6:Can that which is tasteless be eaten without salt, or is there any taste in the juice of the mallow? 
7:My appetite refuses to touch them; they are as food that is loathsome to me. 
8:"Oh that I might have my request, and that God would fulfill my hope, 
9:that it would please God to crush me, that he would let loose his hand and cut me off! 
10:This would be my comfort; I would even exult in pain unsparing, for I have not denied the words of the Holy One. 
11:What is my strength, that I should wait? And what is my end, that I should be patient? 
12:Is my strength the strength of stones, or is my flesh bronze? 
13:Have I any help in me, when resource is driven from me? 
14:"He who withholds kindness from a friend forsakes the fear of the Almighty. 
15:My brothers are treacherous as a torrent-bed, as torrential streams that pass away, 
16:which are dark with ice, and where the snow hides itself. 
17:When they melt, they disappear; when it is hot, they vanish from their place. 
18:The caravans turn aside from their course; they go up into the waste and perish. 
19:The caravans of Tema look, the travelers of Sheba hope. 
20:They are ashamed because they were confident; they come there and are disappointed. 
21:For you have now become nothing; you see my calamity and are afraid. 
22:Have I said, 'Make me a gift'? Or, 'From your wealth offer a bribe for me'? 
23:Or, 'Deliver me from the adversary's hand'? Or, 'Redeem me from the hand of the ruthless'? 
24:"Teach me, and I will be silent; make me understand how I have gone astray. 
25:How forceful are upright words! But what does reproof from you reprove? 
26:Do you think that you can reprove words, when the speech of a despairing man is wind? 
27:You would even cast lots over the fatherless, and bargain over your friend. 
28:"But now, be pleased to look at me, for I will not lie to your face. 
29:Please turn; let no injustice be done. Turn now; my vindication is at stake. 
30:Is there any injustice on my tongue? Cannot my palate discern the cause of calamity? 
