1:Then Job answered and said:
2:"No doubt you are the people, and wisdom will die with you. 
3:But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Who does not know such things as these? 
4:I am a laughingstock to my friends; I, who called to God and he answered me, a just and blameless man, am a laughingstock. 
5:In the thought of one who is at ease there is contempt for misfortune; it is ready for those whose feet slip. 
6:The tents of robbers are at peace, and those who provoke God are secure, who bring their god in their hand. 
7:"But ask the beasts, and they will teach you; the birds of the heavens, and they will tell you; 
8:or the bushes of the earth, and they will teach you; and the fish of the sea will declare to you. 
9:Who among all these does not know that the hand of the LORD has done this? 
10:In his hand is the life of every living thing and the breath of all mankind. 
11:Does not the ear test words as the palate tastes food? 
12:Wisdom is with the aged, and understanding in length of days. 
13:"With God are wisdom and might; he has counsel and understanding. 
14:If he tears down, none can rebuild; if he shuts a man in, none can open. 
15:If he withholds the waters, they dry up; if he sends them out, they overwhelm the land. 
16:With him are strength and sound wisdom; the deceived and the deceiver are his. 
17:He leads counselors away stripped, and judges he makes fools. 
18:He looses the bonds of kings and binds a waistcloth on their hips. 
19:He leads priests away stripped and overthrows the mighty. 
20:He deprives of speech those who are trusted and takes away the discernment of the elders. 
21:He pours contempt on princes and loosens the belt of the strong. 
22:He uncovers the deeps out of darkness and brings deep darkness to light. 
23:He makes nations great, and he destroys them; he enlarges nations, and leads them away. 
24:He takes away understanding from the chiefs of the people of the earth and makes them wander in a pathless waste. 
25:They grope in the dark without light, and he makes them stagger like a drunken man. 
