1:Truly God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart. 
2:But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped. 
3:For I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. 
4:For they have no pangs until death; their bodies are fat and sleek. 
5:They are not in trouble as others are; they are not stricken like the rest of mankind. 
6:Therefore pride is their necklace; violence covers them as a garment. 
7:Their eyes swell out through fatness; their hearts overflow with follies. 
8:They scoff and speak with malice; loftily they threaten oppression. 
9:They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongue struts through the earth. 
10:Therefore his people turn back to them, and find no fault in them. 
11:And they say, "How can God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?" 
12:Behold, these are the wicked; always at ease, they increase in riches. 
13:All in vain have I kept my heart clean and washed my hands in innocence. 
14:For all the day long I have been stricken and rebuked every morning. 
15:If I had said, "I will speak thus," I would have betrayed the generation of your children. 
16:But when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task, 
17:until I went into the sanctuary of God; then I discerned their end. 
18:Truly you set them in slippery places; you make them fall to ruin. 
19:How they are destroyed in a moment, swept away utterly by terrors! 
20:Like a dream when one awakes, O Lord, when you rouse yourself, you despise them as phantoms. 
21:When my soul was embittered, when I was pricked in heart, 
22:I was brutish and ignorant; I was like a beast toward you. 
23:Nevertheless, I am continually with you; you hold my right hand. 
24:You guide me with your counsel, and afterward you will receive me to glory. 
25:Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is nothing on earth that I desire besides you. 
26:My flesh and my heart may fail, but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. 
27:For behold, those who are far from you shall perish; you put an end to everyone who is unfaithful to you. 
28:But for me it is good to be near God; I have made the Lord GOD my refuge, that I may tell of all your works. 
