1:I waited patiently for the LORD; he inclined to me and heard my cry. 
2:He drew me up from the pit of destruction, out of the miry bog, and set my feet upon a rock, making my steps secure. 
3:He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear, and put their trust in the LORD. 
4:Blessed is the man who makes the LORD his trust, who does not turn to the proud, to those who go astray after a lie! 
5:You have multiplied, O LORD my God, your wondrous deeds and your thoughts toward us; none can compare with you! I will proclaim and tell of them, yet they are more than can be told. 
6:In sacrifice and offering you have not delighted, but you have given me an open ear. Burnt offering and sin offering you have not required. 
7:Then I said, "Behold, I have come; in the scroll of the book it is written of me: 
8:I delight to do your will, O my God; your law is within my heart." 
9:I have told the glad news of deliverance in the great congregation; behold, I have not restrained my lips, as you know, O LORD. 
10:I have not hidden your deliverance within my heart; I have spoken of your faithfulness and your salvation; I have not concealed your steadfast love and your faithfulness from the great congregation. 
11:As for you, O LORD, you will not restrain your mercy from me; your steadfast love and your faithfulness will ever preserve me! 
12:For evils have encompassed me beyond number; my iniquities have overtaken me, and I cannot see; they are more than the hairs of my head; my heart fails me. 
13:Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me! O LORD, make haste to help me! 
14:Let those be put to shame and disappointed altogether who seek to snatch away my life; let those be turned back and brought to dishonor who delight in my hurt! 
15:Let those be appalled because of their shame who say to me, "Aha, Aha!" 
16:But may all who seek you rejoice and be glad in you; may those who love your salvation say continually, "Great is the LORD!" 
17:As for me, I am poor and needy, but the Lord takes thought for me. You are my help and my deliverer; do not delay, O my God! 
