1:"Behold, my eye has seen all this, my ear has heard and understood it. 
2:What you know, I also know; I am not inferior to you. 
3:But I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to argue my case with God. 
4:As for you, you whitewash with lies; worthless physicians are you all. 
5:Oh that you would keep silent, and it would be your wisdom! 
6:Hear now my argument and listen to the pleadings of my lips. 
7:Will you speak falsely for God and speak deceitfully for him? 
8:Will you show partiality toward him? Will you plead the case for God? 
9:Will it be well with you when he searches you out? Or can you deceive him, as one deceives a man? 
10:He will surely rebuke you if in secret you show partiality. 
11:Will not his majesty terrify you, and the dread of him fall upon you? 
12:Your maxims are proverbs of ashes; your defenses are defenses of clay. 
13:"Let me have silence, and I will speak, and let come on me what may. 
14:Why should I take my flesh in my teeth and put my life in my hand? 
15:Though he slay me, I will hope in him; yet I will argue my ways to his face. 
16:This will be my salvation, that the godless shall not come before him. 
17:Keep listening to my words, and let my declaration be in your ears. 
18:Behold, I have prepared my case; I know that I shall be in the right. 
19:Who is there who will contend with me? For then I would be silent and die. 
20:Only grant me two things, then I will not hide myself from your face: 
21:withdraw your hand far from me, and let not dread of you terrify me. 
22:Then call, and I will answer; or let me speak, and you reply to me. 
23:How many are my iniquities and my sins? Make me know my transgression and my sin. 
24:Why do you hide your face and count me as your enemy? 
25:Will you frighten a driven leaf and pursue dry chaff? 
26:For you write bitter things against me and make me inherit the iniquities of my youth. 
27:You put my feet in the stocks and watch all my paths; you set a limit for the soles of my feet. 
28:Man wastes away like a rotten thing, like a garment that is moth-eaten. 
