1:Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
2:"Should a wise man answer with windy knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind? 
3:Should he argue in unprofitable talk, or in words with which he can do no good? 
4:But you are doing away with the fear of God and hindering meditation before God. 
5:For your iniquity teaches your mouth, and you choose the tongue of the crafty. 
6:Your own mouth condemns you, and not I; your own lips testify against you. 
7:"Are you the first man who was born? Or were you brought forth before the hills? 
8:Have you listened in the council of God? And do you limit wisdom to yourself? 
9:What do you know that we do not know? What do you understand that is not clear to us? 
10:Both the gray-haired and the aged are among us, older than your father. 
11:Are the comforts of God too small for you, or the word that deals gently with you? 
12:Why does your heart carry you away, and why do your eyes flash, 
13:that you turn your spirit against God and bring such words out of your mouth? 
14:What is man, that he can be pure? Or he who is born of a woman, that he can be righteous? 
15:Behold, God puts no trust in his holy ones, and the heavens are not pure in his sight; 
16:how much less one who is abominable and corrupt, a man who drinks injustice like water! 
17:"I will show you; hear me, and what I have seen I will declare 
18:(what wise men have told, without hiding it from their fathers, 
19:to whom alone the land was given, and no stranger passed among them). 
20:The wicked man writhes in pain all his days, through all the years that are laid up for the ruthless. 
21:Dreadful sounds are in his ears; in prosperity the destroyer will come upon him. 
22:He does not believe that he will return out of darkness, and he is marked for the sword. 
23:He wanders abroad for bread, saying, 'Where is it?' He knows that a day of darkness is ready at his hand; 
24:distress and anguish terrify him; they prevail against him, like a king ready for battle. 
25:Because he has stretched out his hand against God and defies the Almighty, 
26:running stubbornly against him with a thickly bossed shield; 
27:because he has covered his face with his fat and gathered fat upon his waist 
28:and has lived in desolate cities, in houses that none should inhabit, which were ready to become heaps of ruins; 
29:he will not be rich, and his wealth will not endure, nor will his possessions spread over the earth; 
30:he will not depart from darkness; the flame will dry up his shoots, and by the breath of his mouth he will depart. 
31:Let him not trust in emptiness, deceiving himself, for emptiness will be his payment. 
32:It will be paid in full before his time, and his branch will not be green. 
33:He will shake off his unripe grape like the vine, and cast off his blossom like the olive tree. 
34:For the company of the godless is barren, and fire consumes the tents of bribery. 
35:They conceive trouble and give birth to evil, and their womb prepares deceit." 
