1:"Man who is born of a woman is few of days and full of trouble. 
2:He comes out like a flower and withers; he flees like a shadow and continues not. 
3:And do you open your eyes on such a one and bring me into judgment with you? 
4:Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? There is not one. 
5:Since his days are determined, and the number of his months is with you, and you have appointed his limits that he cannot pass, 
6:look away from him and leave him alone, that he may enjoy, like a hired hand, his day. 
7:"For there is hope for a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that its shoots will not cease. 
8:Though its root grow old in the earth, and its stump die in the soil, 
9:yet at the scent of water it will bud and put out branches like a young plant. 
10:But a man dies and is laid low; man breathes his last, and where is he? 
11:As waters fail from a lake and a river wastes away and dries up, 
12:so a man lies down and rises not again; till the heavens are no more he will not awake or be roused out of his sleep. 
13:Oh that you would hide me in Sheol, that you would conceal me until your wrath be past, that you would appoint me a set time, and remember me! 
14:If a man dies, shall he live again? All the days of my service I would wait, till my renewal should come. 
15:You would call, and I would answer you; you would long for the work of your hands. 
16:For then you would number my steps; you would not keep watch over my sin; 
17:my transgression would be sealed up in a bag, and you would cover over my iniquity. 
18:"But the mountain falls and crumbles away, and the rock is removed from its place; 
19:the waters wear away the stones; the torrents wash away the soil of the earth; so you destroy the hope of man. 
20:You prevail forever against him, and he passes; you change his countenance, and send him away. 
21:His sons come to honor, and he does not know it; they are brought low, and he perceives it not. 
22:He feels only the pain of his own body, and he mourns only for himself." 
