1:Blessed are those whose way is blameless, who walk in the law of the LORD! 
2:Blessed are those who keep his testimonies, who seek him with their whole heart, 
3:who also do no wrong, but walk in his ways! 
4:You have commanded your precepts to be kept diligently. 
5:Oh that my ways may be steadfast in keeping your statutes! 
6:Then I shall not be put to shame, having my eyes fixed on all your commandments. 
7:I will praise you with an upright heart, when I learn your righteous rules. 
8:I will keep your statutes; do not utterly forsake me! 
9:How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. 
10:With my whole heart I seek you; let me not wander from your commandments! 
11:I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you. 
12:Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me your statutes! 
13:With my lips I declare all the rules of your mouth. 
14:In the way of your testimonies I delight as much as in all riches. 
15:I will meditate on your precepts and fix my eyes on your ways. 
16:I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word. 
17:Deal bountifully with your servant, that I may live and keep your word. 
18:Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law. 
19:I am a sojourner on the earth; hide not your commandments from me! 
20:My soul is consumed with longing for your rules at all times. 
21:You rebuke the insolent, accursed ones, who wander from your commandments. 
22:Take away from me scorn and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies. 
23:Even though princes sit plotting against me, your servant will meditate on your statutes. 
24:Your testimonies are my delight; they are my counselors. 
25:My soul clings to the dust; give me life according to your word! 
26:When I told of my ways, you answered me; teach me your statutes! 
27:Make me understand the way of your precepts, and I will meditate on your wondrous works. 
28:My soul melts away for sorrow; strengthen me according to your word! 
29:Put false ways far from me and graciously teach me your law! 
30:I have chosen the way of faithfulness; I set your rules before me. 
31:I cling to your testimonies, O LORD; let me not be put to shame! 
32:I will run in the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart! 
33:Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes; and I will keep it to the end. 
34:Give me understanding, that I may keep your law and observe it with my whole heart. 
35:Lead me in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it. 
36:Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to selfish gain! 
37:Turn my eyes from looking at worthless things; and give me life in your ways. 
38:Confirm to your servant your promise, that you may be feared. 
39:Turn away the reproach that I dread, for your rules are good. 
40:Behold, I long for your precepts; in your righteousness give me life! 
41:Let your steadfast love come to me, O LORD, your salvation according to your promise; 
42:then shall I have an answer for him who taunts me, for I trust in your word. 
43:And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for my hope is in your rules. 
44:I will keep your law continually, forever and ever, 
45:and I shall walk in a wide place, for I have sought your precepts. 
46:I will also speak of your testimonies before kings and shall not be put to shame, 
47:for I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. 
48:I will lift up my hands toward your commandments, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes. 
49:Remember your word to your servant, in which you have made me hope. 
50:This is my comfort in my affliction, that your promise gives me life. 
51:The insolent utterly deride me, but I do not turn away from your law. 
52:When I think of your rules from of old, I take comfort, O LORD. 
53:Hot indignation seizes me because of the wicked, who forsake your law. 
54:Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my sojourning. 
55:I remember your name in the night, O LORD, and keep your law. 
56:This blessing has fallen to me, that I have kept your precepts. 
57:The LORD is my portion; I promise to keep your words. 
58:I entreat your favor with all my heart; be gracious to me according to your promise. 
59:When I think on my ways, I turn my feet to your testimonies; 
60:I hasten and do not delay to keep your commandments. 
61:Though the cords of the wicked ensnare me, I do not forget your law. 
62:At midnight I rise to praise you, because of your righteous rules. 
63:I am a companion of all who fear you, of those who keep your precepts. 
64:The earth, O LORD, is full of your steadfast love; teach me your statutes! 
65:You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word. 
66:Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I believe in your commandments. 
67:Before I was afflicted I went astray, but now I keep your word. 
68:You are good and do good; teach me your statutes. 
69:The insolent smear me with lies, but with my whole heart I keep your precepts; 
70:their heart is unfeeling like fat, but I delight in your law. 
71:It is good for me that I was afflicted, that I might learn your statutes. 
72:The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver pieces. 
73:Your hands have made and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your commandments. 
74:Those who fear you shall see me and rejoice, because I have hoped in your word. 
75:I know, O LORD, that your rules are righteous, and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me. 
76:Let your steadfast love comfort me according to your promise to your servant. 
77:Let your mercy come to me, that I may live; for your law is my delight. 
78:Let the insolent be put to shame, because they have wronged me with falsehood; as for me, I will meditate on your precepts. 
79:Let those who fear you turn to me, that they may know your testimonies. 
80:May my heart be blameless in your statutes, that I may not be put to shame! 
81:My soul longs for your salvation; I hope in your word. 
82:My eyes long for your promise; I ask, "When will you comfort me?" 
83:For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke, yet I have not forgotten your statutes. 
84:How long must your servant endure? When will you judge those who persecute me? 
85:The insolent have dug pitfalls for me; they do not live according to your law. 
86:All your commandments are sure; they persecute me with falsehood; help me! 
87:They have almost made an end of me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts. 
88:In your steadfast love give me life, that I may keep the testimonies of your mouth. 
89:Forever, O LORD, your word is firmly fixed in the heavens. 
90:Your faithfulness endures to all generations; you have established the earth, and it stands fast. 
91:By your appointment they stand this day, for all things are your servants. 
92:If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction. 
93:I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have given me life. 
94:I am yours; save me, for I have sought your precepts. 
95:The wicked lie in wait to destroy me, but I consider your testimonies. 
96:I have seen a limit to all perfection, but your commandment is exceedingly broad. 
97:Oh how I love your law! It is my meditation all the day. 
98:Your commandment makes me wiser than my enemies, for it is ever with me. 
99:I have more understanding than all my teachers, for your testimonies are my meditation. 
100:I understand more than the aged, for I keep your precepts. 
101:I hold back my feet from every evil way, in order to keep your word. 
102:I do not turn aside from your rules, for you have taught me. 
103:How sweet are your words to my taste, sweeter than honey to my mouth! 
104:Through your precepts I get understanding; therefore I hate every false way. 
105:Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path. 
106:I have sworn an oath and confirmed it, to keep your righteous rules. 
107:I am severely afflicted; give me life, O LORD, according to your word! 
108:Accept my freewill offerings of praise, O LORD, and teach me your rules. 
109:I hold my life in my hand continually, but I do not forget your law. 
110:The wicked have laid a snare for me, but I do not stray from your precepts. 
111:Your testimonies are my heritage forever, for they are the joy of my heart. 
112:I incline my heart to perform your statutes forever, to the end. 
113:I hate the double-minded, but I love your law. 
114:You are my hiding place and my shield; I hope in your word. 
115:Depart from me, you evildoers, that I may keep the commandments of my God. 
116:Uphold me according to your promise, that I may live, and let me not be put to shame in my hope! 
117:Hold me up, that I may be safe and have regard for your statutes continually! 
118:You spurn all who go astray from your statutes, for their cunning is in vain. 
119:All the wicked of the earth you discard like dross, therefore I love your testimonies. 
120:My flesh trembles for fear of you, and I am afraid of your judgments. 
121:I have done what is just and right; do not leave me to my oppressors. 
122:Give your servant a pledge of good; let not the insolent oppress me. 
123:My eyes long for your salvation and for the fulfillment of your righteous promise. 
124:Deal with your servant according to your steadfast love, and teach me your statutes. 
125:I am your servant; give me understanding, that I may know your testimonies! 
126:It is time for the LORD to act, for your law has been broken. 
127:Therefore I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold. 
128:Therefore I consider all your precepts to be right; I hate every false way. 
129:Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them. 
130:The unfolding of your words gives light; it imparts understanding to the simple. 
131:I open my mouth and pant, because I long for your commandments. 
132:Turn to me and be gracious to me, as is your way with those who love your name. 
133:Keep steady my steps according to your promise, and let no iniquity get dominion over me. 
134:Redeem me from man's oppression, that I may keep your precepts. 
135:Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes. 
136:My eyes shed streams of tears, because people do not keep your law. 
137:Righteous are you, O LORD, and right are your rules. 
138:You have appointed your testimonies in righteousness and in all faithfulness. 
139:My zeal consumes me, because my foes forget your words. 
140:Your promise is well tried, and your servant loves it. 
141:I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts. 
142:Your righteousness is righteous forever, and your law is true. 
143:Trouble and anguish have found me out, but your commandments are my delight. 
144:Your testimonies are righteous forever; give me understanding that I may live. 
145:With my whole heart I cry; answer me, O LORD! I will keep your statutes. 
146:I call to you; save me, that I may observe your testimonies. 
147:I rise before dawn and cry for help; I hope in your words. 
148:My eyes are awake before the watches of the night, that I may meditate on your promise. 
149:Hear my voice according to your steadfast love; O LORD, according to your justice give me life. 
150:They draw near who persecute me with evil purpose; they are far from your law. 
151:But you are near, O LORD, and all your commandments are true. 
152:Long have I known from your testimonies that you have founded them forever. 
153:Look on my affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget your law. 
154:Plead my cause and redeem me; give me life according to your promise! 
155:Salvation is far from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes. 
156:Great is your mercy, O LORD; give me life according to your rules. 
157:Many are my persecutors and my adversaries, but I do not swerve from your testimonies. 
158:I look at the faithless with disgust, because they do not keep your commands. 
159:Consider how I love your precepts! Give me life according to your steadfast love. 
160:The sum of your word is truth, and every one of your righteous rules endures forever. 
161:Princes persecute me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your words. 
162:I rejoice at your word like one who finds great spoil. 
163:I hate and abhor falsehood, but I love your law. 
164:Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous rules. 
165:Great peace have those who love your law; nothing can make them stumble. 
166:I hope for your salvation, O LORD, and I do your commandments. 
167:My soul keeps your testimonies; I love them exceedingly. 
168:I keep your precepts and testimonies, for all my ways are before you. 
169:Let my cry come before you, O LORD; give me understanding according to your word! 
170:Let my plea come before you; deliver me according to your word. 
171:My lips will pour forth praise, for you teach me your statutes. 
172:My tongue will sing of your word, for all your commandments are right. 
173:Let your hand be ready to help me, for I have chosen your precepts. 
174:I long for your salvation, O LORD, and your law is my delight. 
175:Let my soul live and praise you, and let your rules help me. 
176:I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments. 
