1:In you, O LORD, do I take refuge; let me never be put to shame! 
2:In your righteousness deliver me and rescue me; incline your ear to me, and save me! 
3:Be to me a rock of refuge, to which I may continually come; you have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. 
4:Rescue me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unjust and cruel man. 
5:For you, O Lord, are my hope, my trust, O LORD, from my youth. 
6:Upon you I have leaned from before my birth; you are he who took me from my mother's womb. My praise is continually of you. 
7:I have been as a portent to many, but you are my strong refuge. 
8:My mouth is filled with your praise, and with your glory all the day. 
9:Do not cast me off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength is spent. 
10:For my enemies speak concerning me; those who watch for my life consult together 
11:and say, "God has forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is none to deliver him." 
12:O God, be not far from me; O my God, make haste to help me! 
13:May my accusers be put to shame and consumed; with scorn and disgrace may they be covered who seek my hurt. 
14:But I will hope continually and will praise you yet more and more. 
15:My mouth will tell of your righteous acts, of your deeds of salvation all the day, for their number is past my knowledge. 
16:With the mighty deeds of the Lord GOD I will come; I will remind them of your righteousness, yours alone. 
17:O God, from my youth you have taught me, and I still proclaim your wondrous deeds. 
18:So even to old age and gray hairs, O God, do not forsake me, until I proclaim your might to another generation, your power to all those to come. 
19:Your righteousness, O God, reaches the high heavens. You who have done great things, O God, who is like you? 
20:You who have made me see many troubles and calamities will revive me again; from the depths of the earth you will bring me up again. 
21:You will increase my greatness and comfort me again. 
22:I will also praise you with the harp for your faithfulness, O my God; I will sing praises to you with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel. 
23:My lips will shout for joy, when I sing praises to you; my soul also, which you have redeemed. 
24:And my tongue will talk of your righteous help all the day long, for they have been put to shame and disappointed who sought to do me hurt. 
