1:Abraham took another wife, whose name was Keturah.
2:She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.
3:Jokshan fathered Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim.
4:The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.
5:Abraham gave all he had to Isaac.
6:But to the sons of his concubines Abraham gave gifts, and while he was still living he sent them away from his son Isaac, eastward to the east country.
7:These are the days of the years of Abraham's life, 175 years.
8:Abraham breathed his last and died in a good old age, an old man and full of years, and was gathered to his people.
9:Isaac and Ishmael his sons buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, east of Mamre,
10:the field that Abraham purchased from the Hittites. There Abraham was buried, with Sarah his wife.
11:After the death of Abraham, God blessed Isaac his son. And Isaac settled at Beer-lahai-roi.
12:These are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's servant, bore to Abraham.
13:These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, named in the order of their birth: Nebaioth, the firstborn of Ishmael; and Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
14:Mishma, Dumah, Massa,
15:Hadad, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.
16:These are the sons of Ishmael and these are their names, by their villages and by their encampments, twelve princes according to their tribes.
17:(These are the years of the life of Ishmael: 137 years. He breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his people.)
18:They settled from Havilah to Shur, which is opposite Egypt in the direction of Assyria. He settled over against all his kinsmen.
19:These are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham fathered Isaac,
20:and Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah, the daughter of Bethuel the Aramean of Paddan-aram, the sister of Laban the Aramean, to be his wife.
21:And Isaac prayed to the LORD for his wife, because she was barren. And the LORD granted his prayer, and Rebekah his wife conceived.
22:The children struggled together within her, and she said, "If it is thus, why is this happening to me?" So she went to inquire of the LORD.
23:And the LORD said to her, "Two nations are in your womb, and two peoples from within you shall be divided; the one shall be stronger than the other, the older shall serve the younger." 
24:When her days to give birth were completed, behold, there were twins in her womb.
25:The first came out red, all his body like a hairy cloak, so they called his name Esau.
26:Afterward his brother came out with his hand holding Esau's heel, so his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.
27:When the boys grew up, Esau was a skillful hunter, a man of the field, while Jacob was a quiet man, dwelling in tents.
28:Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his game, but Rebekah loved Jacob.
29:Once when Jacob was cooking stew, Esau came in from the field, and he was exhausted.
30:And Esau said to Jacob, "Let me eat some of that red stew, for I am exhausted!" (Therefore his name was called Edom.)
31:Jacob said, "Sell me your birthright now."
32:Esau said, "I am about to die; of what use is a birthright to me?"
33:Jacob said, "Swear to me now." So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob.
34:Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew, and he ate and drank and rose and went his way. Thus Esau despised his birthright.
