1:Woe to the bloody city, all full of lies and plunder- no end to the prey! 
2:The crack of the whip, and rumble of the wheel, galloping horse and bounding chariot! 
3:Horsemen charging, flashing sword and glittering spear, hosts of slain, heaps of corpses, dead bodies without end- they stumble over the bodies! 
4:And all for the countless whorings of the prostitute, graceful and of deadly charms, who betrays nations with her whorings, and peoples with her charms. 
5:Behold, I am against you, declares the LORD of hosts, and will lift up your skirts over your face; and I will make nations look at your nakedness and kingdoms at your shame. 
6:I will throw filth at you and treat you with contempt and make you a spectacle. 
7:And all who look at you will shrink from you and say, Wasted is Nineveh; who will grieve for her? Where shall I seek comforters for you? 
8:Are you better than Thebes that sat by the Nile, with water around her, her rampart a sea, and water her wall? 
9:Cush was her strength; Egypt too, and that without limit; Put and the Libyans were her helpers. 
10:Yet she became an exile; she went into captivity; her infants were dashed in pieces at the head of every street; for her honored men lots were cast, and all her great men were bound in chains. 
11:You also will be drunken; you will go into hiding; you will seek a refuge from the enemy. 
12:All your fortresses are like fig trees with first-ripe figs- if shaken they fall into the mouth of the eater. 
13:Behold, your troops are women in your midst. The gates of your land are wide open to your enemies; fire has devoured your bars. 
14:Draw water for the siege; strengthen your forts; go into the clay; tread the mortar; take hold of the brick mold! 
15:There will the fire devour you; the sword will cut you off. It will devour you like the locust. Multiply yourselves like the locust; multiply like the grasshopper! 
16:You increased your merchants more than the stars of the heavens. The locust spreads its wings and flies away. 
17:Your princes are like grasshoppers, your scribes like clouds of locusts settling on the fences in a day of cold- when the sun rises, they fly away; no one knows where they are. 
18:Your shepherds are asleep, O king of Assyria; your nobles slumber. Your people are scattered on the mountains with none to gather them. 
19:There is no easing your hurt; your wound is grievous. All who hear the news about you clap their hands over you. For upon whom has not come your unceasing evil? 
