1:"Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place for gold that they refine. 
2:Iron is taken out of the earth, and copper is smelted from the ore. 
3:Man puts an end to darkness and searches out to the farthest limit the ore in gloom and deep darkness. 
4:He opens shafts in a valley away from where anyone lives; they are forgotten by travelers; they hang in the air, far away from mankind; they swing to and fro. 
5:As for the earth, out of it comes bread, but underneath it is turned up as by fire. 
6:Its stones are the place of sapphires, and it has dust of gold. 
7:"That path no bird of prey knows, and the falcon's eye has not seen it. 
8:The proud beasts have not trodden it; the lion has not passed over it. 
9:"Man puts his hand to the flinty rock and overturns mountains by the roots. 
10:He cuts out channels in the rocks, and his eye sees every precious thing. 
11:He dams up the streams so that they do not trickle, and the thing that is hidden he brings out to light. 
12:"But where shall wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding? 
13:Man does not know its worth, and it is not found in the land of the living. 
14:The deep says, 'It is not in me,' and the sea says, 'It is not with me.' 
15:It cannot be bought for gold, and silver cannot be weighed as its price. 
16:It cannot be valued in the gold of Ophir, in precious onyx or sapphire. 
17:Gold and glass cannot equal it, nor can it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold. 
18:No mention shall be made of coral or of crystal; the price of wisdom is above pearls. 
19:The topaz of Ethiopia cannot equal it, nor can it be valued in pure gold. 
20:"From where, then, does wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding? 
21:It is hidden from the eyes of all living and concealed from the birds of the air. 
22:Abaddon and Death say, 'We have heard a rumor of it with our ears.' 
23:"God understands the way to it, and he knows its place. 
24:For he looks to the ends of the earth and sees everything under the heavens. 
25:When he gave to the wind its weight and apportioned the waters by measure, 
26:when he made a decree for the rain and a way for the lightning of the thunder, 
27:then he saw it and declared it; he established it, and searched it out. 
28:And he said to man, 'Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is understanding.'" 
