1:For behold, the Lord GOD of hosts is taking away from Jerusalem and from Judah support and supply, all support of bread, and all support of water; 
2:the mighty man and the soldier, the judge and the prophet, the diviner and the elder, 
3:the captain of fifty and the man of rank, the counselor and the skillful magician and the expert in charms. 
4:And I will make boys their princes, and infants shall rule over them. 
5:And the people will oppress one another, every one his fellow and every one his neighbor; the youth will be insolent to the elder, and the despised to the honorable. 
6:For a man will take hold of his brother in the house of his father, saying: "You have a cloak; you shall be our leader, and this heap of ruins shall be under your rule"; 
7:in that day he will speak out, saying: "I will not be a healer; in my house there is neither bread nor cloak; you shall not make me leader of the people." 
8:For Jerusalem has stumbled, and Judah has fallen, because their speech and their deeds are against the LORD, defying his glorious presence. 
9:For the look on their faces bears witness against them; they proclaim their sin like Sodom; they do not hide it. Woe to them! For they have brought evil on themselves. 
10:Tell the righteous that it shall be well with them, for they shall eat the fruit of their deeds. 
11:Woe to the wicked! It shall be ill with him, for what his hands have dealt out shall be done to him. 
12:My people-infants are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, your guides mislead you and they have swallowed up the course of your paths. 
13:The LORD has taken his place to contend; he stands to judge peoples. 
14:The LORD will enter into judgment with the elders and princes of his people: "It is you who have devoured the vineyard, the spoil of the poor is in your houses. 
15:What do you mean by crushing my people, by grinding the face of the poor?" declares the Lord GOD of hosts. 
16:The LORD said: Because the daughters of Zion are haughty and walk with outstretched necks, glancing wantonly with their eyes, mincing along as they go, tinkling with their feet, 
17:therefore the Lord will strike with a scab the heads of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will lay bare their secret parts. 
18:In that day the Lord will take away the finery of the anklets, the headbands, and the crescents;
19:the pendants, the bracelets, and the scarves;
20:the headdresses, the armlets, the sashes, the perfume boxes, and the amulets;
21:the signet rings and nose rings;
22:the festal robes, the mantles, the cloaks, and the handbags;
23:the mirrors, the linen garments, the turbans, and the veils.
24:Instead of perfume there will be rottenness; and instead of a belt, a rope; and instead of well-set hair, baldness; and instead of a rich robe, a skirt of sackcloth; and branding instead of beauty. 
25:Your men shall fall by the sword and your mighty men in battle. 
26:And her gates shall lament and mourn; empty, she shall sit on the ground. 
