1:"At this also my heart trembles and leaps out of its place. 
2:Keep listening to the thunder of his voice and the rumbling that comes from his mouth. 
3:Under the whole heaven he lets it go, and his lightning to the corners of the earth. 
4:After it his voice roars; he thunders with his majestic voice, and he does not restrain the lightnings when his voice is heard. 
5:God thunders wondrously with his voice; he does great things that we cannot comprehend. 
6:For to the snow he says, 'Fall on the earth,' likewise to the downpour, his mighty downpour. 
7:He seals up the hand of every man, that all men whom he made may know it. 
8:Then the beasts go into their lairs, and remain in their dens. 
9:From its chamber comes the whirlwind, and cold from the scattering winds. 
10:By the breath of God ice is given, and the broad waters are frozen fast. 
11:He loads the thick cloud with moisture; the clouds scatter his lightning. 
12:They turn around and around by his guidance, to accomplish all that he commands them on the face of the habitable world. 
13:Whether for correction or for his land or for love, he causes it to happen. 
14:"Hear this, O Job; stop and consider the wondrous works of God. 
15:Do you know how God lays his command upon them and causes the lightning of his cloud to shine? 
16:Do you know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him who is perfect in knowledge, 
17:you whose garments are hot when the earth is still because of the south wind? 
18:Can you, like him, spread out the skies, hard as a cast metal mirror? 
19:Teach us what we shall say to him; we cannot draw up our case because of darkness. 
20:Shall it be told him that I would speak? Did a man ever wish that he would be swallowed up? 
21:"And now no one looks on the light when it is bright in the skies, when the wind has passed and cleared them. 
22:Out of the north comes golden splendor; God is clothed with awesome majesty. 
23:The Almighty-we cannot find him; he is great in power; justice and abundant righteousness he will not violate. 
24:Therefore men fear him; he does not regard any who are wise in their own conceit." 
