1:Whoever isolates himself seeks his own desire; he breaks out against all sound judgment. 
2:A fool takes no pleasure in understanding, but only in expressing his opinion. 
3:When wickedness comes, contempt comes also, and with dishonor comes disgrace. 
4:The words of a man's mouth are deep waters; the fountain of wisdom is a bubbling brook. 
5:It is not good to be partial to the wicked or to deprive the righteous of justice. 
6:A fool's lips walk into a fight, and his mouth invites a beating. 
7:A fool's mouth is his ruin, and his lips are a snare to his soul. 
8:The words of a whisperer are like delicious morsels; they go down into the inner parts of the body. 
9:Whoever is slack in his work is a brother to him who destroys. 
10:The name of the LORD is a strong tower; the righteous man runs into it and is safe. 
11:A rich man's wealth is his strong city, and like a high wall in his imagination. 
12:Before destruction a man's heart is haughty, but humility comes before honor. 
13:If one gives an answer before he hears, it is his folly and shame. 
14:A man's spirit will endure sickness, but a crushed spirit who can bear? 
15:An intelligent heart acquires knowledge, and the ear of the wise seeks knowledge. 
16:A man's gift makes room for him and brings him before the great. 
17:The one who states his case first seems right, until the other comes and examines him. 
18:The lot puts an end to quarrels and decides between powerful contenders. 
19:A brother offended is more unyielding than a strong city, and quarreling is like the bars of a castle. 
20:From the fruit of a man's mouth his stomach is satisfied; he is satisfied by the yield of his lips. 
21:Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love it will eat its fruits. 
22:He who finds a wife finds a good thing and obtains favor from the LORD. 
23:The poor use entreaties, but the rich answer roughly. 
24:A man of many companions may come to ruin, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother. 
