1:My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me, from the words of my groaning? 
2:O my God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. 
3:Yet you are holy, enthroned on the praises of Israel. 
4:In you our fathers trusted; they trusted, and you delivered them. 
5:To you they cried and were rescued; in you they trusted and were not put to shame. 
6:But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised by the people. 
7:All who see me mock me; they make mouths at me; they wag their heads; 
8:"He trusts in the LORD; let him deliver him; let him rescue him, for he delights in him!" 
9:Yet you are he who took me from the womb; you made me trust you at my mother's breasts. 
10:On you was I cast from my birth, and from my mother's womb you have been my God. 
11:Be not far from me, for trouble is near, and there is none to help. 
12:Many bulls encompass me; strong bulls of Bashan surround me; 
13:they open wide their mouths at me, like a ravening and roaring lion. 
14:I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; my heart is like wax; it is melted within my breast; 
15:my strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to my jaws; you lay me in the dust of death. 
16:For dogs encompass me; a company of evildoers encircles me; they have pierced my hands and feet- 
17:I can count all my bones- they stare and gloat over me; 
18:they divide my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots. 
19:But you, O LORD, do not be far off! O you my help, come quickly to my aid! 
20:Deliver my soul from the sword, my precious life from the power of the dog! 
21:Save me from the mouth of the lion! You have rescued me from the horns of the wild oxen! 
22:I will tell of your name to my brothers; in the midst of the congregation I will praise you: 
23:You who fear the LORD, praise him! All you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel! 
24:For he has not despised or abhorred the affliction of the afflicted, and he has not hidden his face from him, but has heard, when he cried to him. 
25:From you comes my praise in the great congregation; my vows I will perform before those who fear him. 
26:The afflicted shall eat and be satisfied; those who seek him shall praise the LORD! May your hearts live forever! 
27:All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the LORD, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you. 
28:For kingship belongs to the LORD, and he rules over the nations. 
29:All the prosperous of the earth eat and worship; before him shall bow all who go down to the dust, even the one who could not keep himself alive. 
30:Posterity shall serve him; it shall be told of the Lord to the coming generation; 
31:they shall come and proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn, that he has done it. 
