1:These also are proverbs of Solomon which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied.
2:It is the glory of God to conceal things, but the glory of kings is to search things out. 
3:As the heavens for height, and the earth for depth, so the heart of kings is unsearchable. 
4:Take away the dross from the silver, and the smith has material for a vessel; 
5:take away the wicked from the presence of the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness. 
6:Do not put yourself forward in the king's presence or stand in the place of the great, 
7:for it is better to be told, "Come up here," than to be put lower in the presence of a noble. What your eyes have seen 
8:do not hastily bring into court, for what will you do in the end, when your neighbor puts you to shame? 
9:Argue your case with your neighbor himself, and do not reveal another's secret, 
10:lest he who hears you bring shame upon you, and your ill repute have no end. 
11:A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in a setting of silver. 
12:Like a gold ring or an ornament of gold is a wise reprover to a listening ear. 
13:Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest is a faithful messenger to those who send him; he refreshes the soul of his masters. 
14:Like clouds and wind without rain is a man who boasts of a gift he does not give. 
15:With patience a ruler may be persuaded, and a soft tongue will break a bone. 
16:If you have found honey, eat only enough for you, lest you have your fill of it and vomit it. 
17:Let your foot be seldom in your neighbor's house, lest he have his fill of you and hate you. 
18:A man who bears false witness against his neighbor is like a war club, or a sword, or a sharp arrow. 
19:Trusting in a treacherous man in time of trouble is like a bad tooth or a foot that slips. 
20:Whoever sings songs to a heavy heart is like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, and like vinegar on soda. 
21:If your enemy is hungry, give him bread to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink, 
22:for you will heap burning coals on his head, and the LORD will reward you. 
23:The north wind brings forth rain, and a backbiting tongue, angry looks. 
24:It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife. 
25:Like cold water to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country. 
26:Like a muddied spring or a polluted fountain is a righteous man who gives way before the wicked. 
27:It is not good to eat much honey, nor is it glorious to seek one's own glory. 
28:A man without self-control is like a city broken into and left without walls. 
