1:Behold, you are beautiful, my love, behold, you are beautiful! Your eyes are doves behind your veil. Your hair is like a flock of goats leaping down the slopes of Gilead. 
2:Your teeth are like a flock of shorn ewes that have come up from the washing, all of which bear twins, and not one among them has lost its young. 
3:Your lips are like a scarlet thread, and your mouth is lovely. Your cheeks are like halves of a pomegranate behind your veil. 
4:Your neck is like the tower of David, built in rows of stone; on it hang a thousand shields, all of them shields of warriors. 
5:Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of a gazelle, that graze among the lilies. 
6:Until the day breathes and the shadows flee, I will go away to the mountain of myrrh and the hill of frankincense. 
7:You are altogether beautiful, my love; there is no flaw in you. 
8:Come with me from Lebanon, my bride; come with me from Lebanon. Depart from the peak of Amana, from the peak of Senir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards. 
9:You have captivated my heart, my sister, my bride; you have captivated my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace. 
10:How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine, and the fragrance of your oils than any spice! 
11:Your lips drip nectar, my bride; honey and milk are under your tongue; the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon. 
12:A garden locked is my sister, my bride, a spring locked, a fountain sealed. 
13:Your shoots are an orchard of pomegranates with all choicest fruits, henna with nard, 
14:nard and saffron, calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense, myrrh and aloes, with all choice spices- 
15:a garden fountain, a well of living water, and flowing streams from Lebanon. 
16:Awake, O north wind, and come, O south wind! Blow upon my garden, let its spices flow. Together in the Garden of Love She Let my beloved come to his garden, and eat its choicest fruits. 
