1:And Job again took up his discourse, and said:
2:"Oh, that I were as in the months of old, as in the days when God watched over me, 
3:when his lamp shone upon my head, and by his light I walked through darkness, 
4:as I was in my prime, when the friendship of God was upon my tent, 
5:when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were all around me, 
6:when my steps were washed with butter, and the rock poured out for me streams of oil! 
7:When I went out to the gate of the city, when I prepared my seat in the square, 
8:the young men saw me and withdrew, and the aged rose and stood; 
9:the princes refrained from talking and laid their hand on their mouth; 
10:the voice of the nobles was hushed, and their tongue stuck to the roof of their mouth. 
11:When the ear heard, it called me blessed, and when the eye saw, it approved, 
12:because I delivered the poor who cried for help, and the fatherless who had none to help him. 
13:The blessing of him who was about to perish came upon me, and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. 
14:I put on righteousness, and it clothed me; my justice was like a robe and a turban. 
15:I was eyes to the blind and feet to the lame. 
16:I was a father to the needy, and I searched out the cause of him whom I did not know. 
17:I broke the fangs of the unrighteous and made him drop his prey from his teeth. 
18:Then I thought, 'I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand, 
19:my roots spread out to the waters, with the dew all night on my branches, 
20:my glory fresh with me, and my bow ever new in my hand.' 
21:"Men listened to me and waited and kept silence for my counsel. 
22:After I spoke they did not speak again, and my word dropped upon them. 
23:They waited for me as for the rain, and they opened their mouths as for the spring rain. 
24:I smiled on them when they had no confidence, and the light of my face they did not cast down. 
25:I chose their way and sat as chief, and I lived like a king among his troops, like one who comforts mourners. 
