1:Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is crooked in speech and is a fool. 
2:Desire without knowledge is not good, and whoever makes haste with his feet misses his way. 
3:When a man's folly brings his way to ruin, his heart rages against the LORD. 
4:Wealth brings many new friends, but a poor man is deserted by his friend. 
5:A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will not escape. 
6:Many seek the favor of a generous man, and everyone is a friend to a man who gives gifts. 
7:All a poor man's brothers hate him; how much more do his friends go far from him! He pursues them with words, but does not have them. 
8:Whoever gets sense loves his own soul; he who keeps understanding will discover good. 
9:A false witness will not go unpunished, and he who breathes out lies will perish. 
10:It is not fitting for a fool to live in luxury, much less for a slave to rule over princes. 
11:Good sense makes one slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense. 
12:A king's wrath is like the growling of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass. 
13:A foolish son is ruin to his father, and a wife's quarreling is a continual dripping of rain. 
14:House and wealth are inherited from fathers, but a prudent wife is from the LORD. 
15:Slothfulness casts into a deep sleep, and an idle person will suffer hunger. 
16:Whoever keeps the commandment keeps his life; he who despises his ways will die. 
17:Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the LORD, and he will repay him for his deed. 
18:Discipline your son, for there is hope; do not set your heart on putting him to death. 
19:A man of great wrath will pay the penalty, for if you deliver him, you will only have to do it again. 
20:Listen to advice and accept instruction, that you may gain wisdom in the future. 
21:Many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it is the purpose of the LORD that will stand. 
22:What is desired in a man is steadfast love, and a poor man is better than a liar. 
23:The fear of the LORD leads to life, and whoever has it rests satisfied; he will not be visited by harm. 
24:The sluggard buries his hand in the dish and will not even bring it back to his mouth. 
25:Strike a scoffer, and the simple will learn prudence; reprove a man of understanding, and he will gain knowledge. 
26:He who does violence to his father and chases away his mother is a son who brings shame and reproach. 
27:Cease to hear instruction, my son, and you will stray from the words of knowledge. 
28:A worthless witness mocks at justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity. 
29:Condemnation is ready for scoffers, and beating for the backs of fools. 
