1:The wicked flee when no one pursues, but the righteous are bold as a lion. 
2:When a land transgresses, it has many rulers, but with a man of understanding and knowledge, its stability will long continue. 
3:A poor man who oppresses the poor is a beating rain that leaves no food. 
4:Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law strive against them. 
5:Evil men do not understand justice, but those who seek the LORD understand it completely. 
6:Better is a poor man who walks in his integrity than a rich man who is crooked in his ways. 
7:The one who keeps the law is a son with understanding, but a companion of gluttons shames his father. 
8:Whoever multiplies his wealth by interest and profit gathers it for him who is generous to the poor. 
9:If one turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer is an abomination. 
10:Whoever misleads the upright into an evil way will fall into his own pit, but the blameless will have a goodly inheritance. 
11:A rich man is wise in his own eyes, but a poor man who has understanding will find him out. 
12:When the righteous triumph, there is great glory, but when the wicked rise, people hide themselves. 
13:Whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. 
14:Blessed is the one who fears the LORD always, but whoever hardens his heart will fall into calamity. 
15:Like a roaring lion or a charging bear is a wicked ruler over a poor people. 
16:A ruler who lacks understanding is a cruel oppressor, but he who hates unjust gain will prolong his days. 
17:If one is burdened with the blood of another, he will be a fugitive until death; let no one help him. 
18:Whoever walks in integrity will be delivered, but he who is crooked in his ways will suddenly fall. 
19:Whoever works his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits will have plenty of poverty. 
20:A faithful man will abound with blessings, but whoever hastens to be rich will not go unpunished. 
21:To show partiality is not good, but for a piece of bread a man will do wrong. 
22:A stingy man hastens after wealth and does not know that poverty will come upon him. 
23:Whoever rebukes a man will afterward find more favor than he who flatters with his tongue. 
24:Whoever robs his father or his mother and says, "That is no transgression," is a companion to a man who destroys. 
25:A greedy man stirs up strife, but the one who trusts in the LORD will be enriched. 
26:Whoever trusts in his own mind is a fool, but he who walks in wisdom will be delivered. 
27:Whoever gives to the poor will not want, but he who hides his eyes will get many a curse. 
28:When the wicked rise, people hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase. 
