1:I will sing of the steadfast love of the LORD, forever; with my mouth I will make known your faithfulness to all generations. 
2:For I said, "Steadfast love will be built up forever; in the heavens you will establish your faithfulness." 
3:You have said, "I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have sworn to David my servant: 
4:'I will establish your offspring forever, and build your throne for all generations.'" Selah 
5:Let the heavens praise your wonders, O LORD, your faithfulness in the assembly of the holy ones! 
6:For who in the skies can be compared to the LORD? Who among the heavenly beings is like the LORD, 
7:a God greatly to be feared in the council of the holy ones, and awesome above all who are around him? 
8:O LORD God of hosts, who is mighty as you are, O LORD, with your faithfulness all around you? 
9:You rule the raging of the sea; when its waves rise, you still them. 
10:You crushed Rahab like a carcass; you scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. 
11:The heavens are yours; the earth also is yours; the world and all that is in it, you have founded them. 
12:The north and the south, you have created them; Tabor and Hermon joyously praise your name. 
13:You have a mighty arm; strong is your hand, high your right hand. 
14:Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne; steadfast love and faithfulness go before you. 
15:Blessed are the people who know the festal shout, who walk, O LORD, in the light of your face, 
16:who exult in your name all the day and in your righteousness are exalted. 
17:For you are the glory of their strength; by your favor our horn is exalted. 
18:For our shield belongs to the LORD, our king to the Holy One of Israel. 
19:Of old you spoke in a vision to your godly one, and said: "I have granted help to one who is mighty; I have exalted one chosen from the people. 
20:I have found David, my servant; with my holy oil I have anointed him, 
21:so that my hand shall be established with him; my arm also shall strengthen him. 
22:The enemy shall not outwit him; the wicked shall not humble him. 
23:I will crush his foes before him and strike down those who hate him. 
24:My faithfulness and my steadfast love shall be with him, and in my name shall his horn be exalted. 
25:I will set his hand on the sea and his right hand on the rivers. 
26:He shall cry to me, 'You are my Father, my God, and the Rock of my salvation.' 
27:And I will make him the firstborn, the highest of the kings of the earth. 
28:My steadfast love I will keep for him forever, and my covenant will stand firm for him. 
29:I will establish his offspring forever and his throne as the days of the heavens. 
30:If his children forsake my law and do not walk according to my rules, 
31:if they violate my statutes and do not keep my commandments, 
32:then I will punish their transgression with the rod and their iniquity with stripes, 
33:but I will not remove from him my steadfast love or be false to my faithfulness. 
34:I will not violate my covenant or alter the word that went forth from my lips. 
35:Once for all I have sworn by my holiness; I will not lie to David. 
36:His offspring shall endure forever, his throne as long as the sun before me. 
37:Like the moon it shall be established forever, a faithful witness in the skies." Selah 
38:But now you have cast off and rejected; you are full of wrath against your anointed. 
39:You have renounced the covenant with your servant; you have defiled his crown in the dust. 
40:You have breached all his walls; you have laid his strongholds in ruins. 
41:All who pass by plunder him; he has become the scorn of his neighbors. 
42:You have exalted the right hand of his foes; you have made all his enemies rejoice. 
43:You have also turned back the edge of his sword, and you have not made him stand in battle. 
44:You have made his splendor to cease and cast his throne to the ground. 
45:You have cut short the days of his youth; you have covered him with shame. Selah 
46:How long, O LORD? Will you hide yourself forever? How long will your wrath burn like fire? 
47:Remember how short my time is! For what vanity you have created all the children of man! 
48:What man can live and never see death? Who can deliver his soul from the power of Sheol? Selah 
49:Lord, where is your steadfast love of old, which by your faithfulness you swore to David? 
50:Remember, O Lord, how your servants are mocked, and how I bear in my heart the insults of all the many nations, 
51:with which your enemies mock, O LORD, with which they mock the footsteps of your anointed. 
52:Blessed be the LORD forever! Amen and Amen. 
