1:I love you, O LORD, my strength. 
2:The LORD is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. 
3:I call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. 
4:The cords of death encompassed me; the torrents of destruction assailed me; 
5:the cords of Sheol entangled me; the snares of death confronted me. 
6:In my distress I called upon the LORD; to my God I cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. 
7:Then the earth reeled and rocked; the foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked, because he was angry. 
8:Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth; glowing coals flamed forth from him. 
9:He bowed the heavens and came down; thick darkness was under his feet. 
10:He rode on a cherub and flew; he came swiftly on the wings of the wind. 
11:He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him, thick clouds dark with water. 
12:Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds. 
13:The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, hailstones and coals of fire. 
14:And he sent out his arrows and scattered them; he flashed forth lightnings and routed them. 
15:Then the channels of the sea were seen, and the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils. 
16:He sent from on high, he took me; he drew me out of many waters. 
17:He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. 
18:They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support. 
19:He brought me out into a broad place; he rescued me, because he delighted in me. 
20:The LORD dealt with me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands he rewarded me. 
21:For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God. 
22:For all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me. 
23:I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt. 
24:So the LORD has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. 
25:With the merciful you show yourself merciful; with the blameless man you show yourself blameless; 
26:with the purified you show yourself pure; and with the crooked you make yourself seem tortuous. 
27:For you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down. 
28:For it is you who light my lamp; the LORD my God lightens my darkness. 
29:For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. 
30:This God-his way is perfect; the word of the LORD proves true; he is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. 
31:For who is God, but the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?- 
32:the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless. 
33:He made my feet like the feet of a deer and set me secure on the heights. 
34:He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. 
35:You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great. 
36:You gave a wide place for my steps under me, and my feet did not slip. 
37:I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed. 
38:I thrust them through, so that they were not able to rise; they fell under my feet. 
39:For you equipped me with strength for the battle; you made those who rise against me sink under me. 
40:You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed. 
41:They cried for help, but there was none to save; they cried to the LORD, but he did not answer them. 
42:I beat them fine as dust before the wind; I cast them out like the mire of the streets. 
43:You delivered me from strife with the people; you made me the head of the nations; people whom I had not known served me. 
44:As soon as they heard of me they obeyed me; foreigners came cringing to me. 
45:Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses. 
46:The LORD lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation- 
47:the God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me, 
48:who delivered me from my enemies; yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me; you rescued me from the man of violence. 
49:For this I will praise you, O LORD, among the nations, and sing to your name. 
50:Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his offspring forever. 
