1:After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day of his birth.
2:And Job said:
3:"Let the day perish on which I was born, and the night that said, 'A man is conceived.' 
4:Let that day be darkness! May God above not seek it, nor light shine upon it. 
5:Let gloom and deep darkness claim it. Let clouds dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it. 
6:That night-let thick darkness seize it! Let it not rejoice among the days of the year; let it not come into the number of the months. 
7:Behold, let that night be barren; let no joyful cry enter it. 
8:Let those curse it who curse the day, who are ready to rouse up Leviathan. 
9:Let the stars of its dawn be dark; let it hope for light, but have none, nor see the eyelids of the morning, 
10:because it did not shut the doors of my mother's womb, nor hide trouble from my eyes. 
11:"Why did I not die at birth, come out from the womb and expire? 
12:Why did the knees receive me? Or why the breasts, that I should nurse? 
13:For then I would have lain down and been quiet; I would have slept; then I would have been at rest, 
14:with kings and counselors of the earth who rebuilt ruins for themselves, 
15:or with princes who had gold, who filled their houses with silver. 
16:Or why was I not as a hidden stillborn child, as infants who never see the light? 
17:There the wicked cease from troubling, and there the weary are at rest. 
18:There the prisoners are at ease together; they hear not the voice of the taskmaster. 
19:The small and the great are there, and the slave is free from his master. 
20:"Why is light given to him who is in misery, and life to the bitter in soul, 
21:who long for death, but it comes not, and dig for it more than for hidden treasures, 
22:who rejoice exceedingly and are glad when they find the grave? 
23:Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, whom God has hedged in? 
24:For my sighing comes instead of my bread, and my groanings are poured out like water. 
25:For the thing that I fear comes upon me, and what I dread befalls me. 
26:I am not at ease, nor am I quiet; I have no rest, but trouble comes." 
