1:Save me, O God! For the waters have come up to my neck. 
2:I sink in deep mire, where there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and the flood sweeps over me. 
3:I am weary with my crying out; my throat is parched. My eyes grow dim with waiting for my God. 
4:More in number than the hairs of my head are those who hate me without cause; mighty are those who would destroy me, those who attack me with lies. What I did not steal must I now restore? 
5:O God, you know my folly; the wrongs I have done are not hidden from you. 
6:Let not those who hope in you be put to shame through me, O Lord GOD of hosts; let not those who seek you be brought to dishonor through me, O God of Israel. 
7:For it is for your sake that I have borne reproach, that dishonor has covered my face. 
8:I have become a stranger to my brothers, an alien to my mother's sons. 
9:For zeal for your house has consumed me, and the reproaches of those who reproach you have fallen on me. 
10:When I wept and humbled my soul with fasting, it became my reproach. 
11:When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them. 
12:I am the talk of those who sit in the gate, and the drunkards make songs about me. 
13:But as for me, my prayer is to you, O LORD. At an acceptable time, O God, in the abundance of your steadfast love answer me in your saving faithfulness. 
14:Deliver me from sinking in the mire; let me be delivered from my enemies and from the deep waters. 
15:Let not the flood sweep over me, or the deep swallow me up, or the pit close its mouth over me. 
16:Answer me, O LORD, for your steadfast love is good; according to your abundant mercy, turn to me. 
17:Hide not your face from your servant; for I am in distress; make haste to answer me. 
18:Draw near to my soul, redeem me; ransom me because of my enemies! 
19:You know my reproach, and my shame and my dishonor; my foes are all known to you. 
20:Reproaches have broken my heart, so that I am in despair. I looked for pity, but there was none, and for comforters, but I found none. 
21:They gave me poison for food, and for my thirst they gave me sour wine to drink. 
22:Let their own table before them become a snare; and when they are at peace, let it become a trap. 
23:Let their eyes be darkened, so that they cannot see, and make their loins tremble continually. 
24:Pour out your indignation upon them, and let your burning anger overtake them. 
25:May their camp be a desolation; let no one dwell in their tents. 
26:For they persecute him whom you have struck down, and they recount the pain of those you have wounded. 
27:Add to them punishment upon punishment; may they have no acquittal from you. 
28:Let them be blotted out of the book of the living; let them not be enrolled among the righteous. 
29:But I am afflicted and in pain; let your salvation, O God, set me on high! 
30:I will praise the name of God with a song; I will magnify him with thanksgiving. 
31:This will please the LORD more than an ox or a bull with horns and hoofs. 
32:When the humble see it they will be glad; you who seek God, let your hearts revive. 
33:For the LORD hears the needy and does not despise his own people who are prisoners. 
34:Let heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moves in them. 
35:For God will save Zion and build up the cities of Judah, and people shall dwell there and possess it; 
36:the offspring of his servants shall inherit it, and those who love his name shall dwell in it. 
