1:He who is often reproved, yet stiffens his neck, will suddenly be broken beyond healing. 
2:When the righteous increase, the people rejoice, but when the wicked rule, the people groan. 
3:He who loves wisdom makes his father glad, but a companion of prostitutes squanders his wealth. 
4:By justice a king builds up the land, but he who exacts gifts tears it down. 
5:A man who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his feet. 
6:An evil man is ensnared in his transgression, but a righteous man sings and rejoices. 
7:A righteous man knows the rights of the poor; a wicked man does not understand such knowledge. 
8:Scoffers set a city aflame, but the wise turn away wrath. 
9:If a wise man has an argument with a fool, the fool only rages and laughs, and there is no quiet. 
10:Bloodthirsty men hate one who is blameless and seek the life of the upright. 
11:A fool gives full vent to his spirit, but a wise man quietly holds it back. 
12:If a ruler listens to falsehood, all his officials will be wicked. 
13:The poor man and the oppressor meet together; the LORD gives light to the eyes of both. 
14:If a king faithfully judges the poor, his throne will be established forever. 
15:The rod and reproof give wisdom, but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother. 
16:When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will look upon their downfall. 
17:Discipline your son, and he will give you rest; he will give delight to your heart. 
18:Where there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but blessed is he who keeps the law. 
19:By mere words a servant is not disciplined, for though he understands, he will not respond. 
20:Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him. 
21:Whoever pampers his servant from childhood will in the end find him his heir. 
22:A man of wrath stirs up strife, and one given to anger causes much transgression. 
23:One's pride will bring him low, but he who is lowly in spirit will obtain honor. 
24:The partner of a thief hates his own life; he hears the curse, but discloses nothing. 
25:The fear of man lays a snare, but whoever trusts in the LORD is safe. 
26:Many seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the LORD that a man gets justice. 
27:An unjust man is an abomination to the righteous, but one whose way is straight is an abomination to the wicked. 
