1:The words of King Lemuel. An oracle that his mother taught him:
2:What are you doing, my son? What are you doing, son of my womb? What are you doing, son of my vows? 
3:Do not give your strength to women, your ways to those who destroy kings. 
4:It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to take strong drink, 
5:lest they drink and forget what has been decreed and pervert the rights of all the afflicted. 
6:Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those in bitter distress; 
7:let them drink and forget their poverty and remember their misery no more. 
8:Open your mouth for the mute, for the rights of all who are destitute. 
9:Open your mouth, judge righteously, defend the rights of the poor and needy. 
10:An excellent wife who can find? She is far more precious than jewels. 
11:The heart of her husband trusts in her, and he will have no lack of gain. 
12:She does him good, and not harm, all the days of her life. 
13:She seeks wool and flax, and works with willing hands. 
14:She is like the ships of the merchant; she brings her food from afar. 
15:She rises while it is yet night and provides food for her household and portions for her maidens. 
16:She considers a field and buys it; with the fruit of her hands she plants a vineyard. 
17:She dresses herself with strength and makes her arms strong. 
18:She perceives that her merchandise is profitable. Her lamp does not go out at night. 
19:She puts her hands to the distaff, and her hands hold the spindle. 
20:She opens her hand to the poor and reaches out her hands to the needy. 
21:She is not afraid of snow for her household, for all her household are clothed in scarlet. 
22:She makes bed coverings for herself; her clothing is fine linen and purple. 
23:Her husband is known in the gates when he sits among the elders of the land. 
24:She makes linen garments and sells them; she delivers sashes to the merchant. 
25:Strength and dignity are her clothing, and she laughs at the time to come. 
26:She opens her mouth with wisdom, and the teaching of kindness is on her tongue. 
27:She looks well to the ways of her household and does not eat the bread of idleness. 
28:Her children rise up and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praises her: 
29:"Many women have done excellently, but you surpass them all." 
30:Charm is deceitful, and beauty is vain, but a woman who fears the LORD is to be praised. 
31:Give her of the fruit of her hands, and let her works praise her in the gates. 
