1:"I have made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I gaze at a virgin? 
2:What would be my portion from God above and my heritage from the Almighty on high? 
3:Is not calamity for the unrighteous, and disaster for the workers of iniquity? 
4:Does not he see my ways and number all my steps? 
5:"If I have walked with falsehood and my foot has hastened to deceit; 
6:(Let me be weighed in a just balance, and let God know my integrity!) 
7:if my step has turned aside from the way and my heart has gone after my eyes, and if any spot has stuck to my hands, 
8:then let me sow, and another eat, and let what grows for me be rooted out. 
9:"If my heart has been enticed toward a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbor's door, 
10:then let my wife grind for another, and let others bow down on her. 
11:For that would be a heinous crime; that would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges; 
12:for that would be a fire that consumes as far as Abaddon, and it would burn to the root all my increase. 
13:"If I have rejected the cause of my manservant or my maidservant, when they brought a complaint against me, 
14:what then shall I do when God rises up? When he makes inquiry, what shall I answer him? 
15:Did not he who made me in the womb make him? And did not one fashion us in the womb? 
16:"If I have withheld anything that the poor desired, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail, 
17:or have eaten my morsel alone, and the fatherless has not eaten of it 
18:(for from my youth the fatherless grew up with me as with a father, and from my mother's womb I guided the widow), 
19:if I have seen anyone perish for lack of clothing, or the needy without covering, 
20:if his body has not blessed me, and if he was not warmed with the fleece of my sheep, 
21:if I have raised my hand against the fatherless, because I saw my help in the gate, 
22:then let my shoulder blade fall from my shoulder, and let my arm be broken from its socket. 
23:For I was in terror of calamity from God, and I could not have faced his majesty. 
24:"If I have made gold my trust or called fine gold my confidence, 
25:if I have rejoiced because my wealth was abundant or because my hand had found much, 
26:if I have looked at the sun when it shone, or the moon moving in splendor, 
27:and my heart has been secretly enticed, and my mouth has kissed my hand, 
28:this also would be an iniquity to be punished by the judges, for I would have been false to God above. 
29:"If I have rejoiced at the ruin of him who hated me, or exulted when evil overtook him 
30:(I have not let my mouth sin by asking for his life with a curse), 
31:if the men of my tent have not said, 'Who is there that has not been filled with his meat?' 
32:(the sojourner has not lodged in the street; I have opened my doors to the traveler), 
33:if I have concealed my transgressions as others do by hiding my iniquity in my bosom, 
34:because I stood in great fear of the multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I kept silence, and did not go out of doors- 
35:Oh, that I had one to hear me! (Here is my signature! Let the Almighty answer me!) Oh, that I had the indictment written by my adversary! 
36:Surely I would carry it on my shoulder; I would bind it on me as a crown; 
37:I would give him an account of all my steps; like a prince I would approach him. 
38:"If my land has cried out against me and its furrows have wept together, 
39:if I have eaten its yield without payment and made its owners breathe their last, 
40:let thorns grow instead of wheat, and foul weeds instead of barley." The words of Job are ended. 
