1:"Why are not times of judgment kept by the Almighty, and why do those who know him never see his days? 
2:Some move landmarks; they seize flocks and pasture them. 
3:They drive away the donkey of the fatherless; they take the widow's ox for a pledge. 
4:They thrust the poor off the road; the poor of the earth all hide themselves. 
5:Behold, like wild donkeys in the desert the poor go out to their toil, seeking game; the wasteland yields food for their children. 
6:They gather their fodder in the field, and they glean the vineyard of the wicked man. 
7:They lie all night naked, without clothing, and have no covering in the cold. 
8:They are wet with the rain of the mountains and cling to the rock for lack of shelter. 
9:(There are those who snatch the fatherless child from the breast, and they take a pledge against the poor.) 
10:They go about naked, without clothing; hungry, they carry the sheaves; 
11:among the olive rows of the wicked they make oil; they tread the winepresses, but suffer thirst. 
12:From out of the city the dying groan, and the soul of the wounded cries for help; yet God charges no one with wrong. 
13:"There are those who rebel against the light, who are not acquainted with its ways, and do not stay in its paths. 
14:The murderer rises before it is light, that he may kill the poor and needy, and in the night he is like a thief. 
15:The eye of the adulterer also waits for the twilight, saying, 'No eye will see me'; and he veils his face. 
16:In the dark they dig through houses; by day they shut themselves up; they do not know the light. 
17:For deep darkness is morning to all of them; for they are friends with the terrors of deep darkness. 
18:"You say, 'Swift are they on the face of the waters; their portion is cursed in the land; no treader turns toward their vineyards. 
19:Drought and heat snatch away the snow waters; so does Sheol those who have sinned. 
20:The womb forgets them; the worm finds them sweet; they are no longer remembered, so wickedness is broken like a tree.' 
21:"They wrong the barren, childless woman, and do no good to the widow. 
22:Yet God prolongs the life of the mighty by his power; they rise up when they despair of life. 
23:He gives them security, and they are supported, and his eyes are upon their ways. 
24:They are exalted a little while, and then are gone; they are brought low and gathered up like all others; they are cut off like the heads of grain. 
25:If it is not so, who will prove me a liar and show that there is nothing in what I say?" 
