1:These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Zebulun,
2:Dan, Joseph, Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.
3:The sons of Judah: Er, Onan and Shelah; these three Bath-shua the Canaanite bore to him. Now Er, Judah's firstborn, was evil in the sight of the LORD, and he put him to death.
4:His daughter-in-law Tamar also bore him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.
5:The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
6:The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, five in all.
7:The son of Carmi: Achan, the troubler of Israel, who broke faith in the matter of the devoted thing;
8:and Ethan's son was Azariah.
9:The sons of Hezron that were born to him: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai.
10:Ram fathered Amminadab, and Amminadab fathered Nahshon, prince of the sons of Judah.
11:Nahshon fathered Salmon, Salmon fathered Boaz,
12:Boaz fathered Obed, Obed fathered Jesse.
13:Jesse fathered Eliab his firstborn, Abinadab the second, Shimea the third,
14:Nethanel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,
15:Ozem the sixth, David the seventh.
16:And their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah: Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three.
17:Abigail bore Amasa, and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmaelite.
18:Caleb the son of Hezron fathered children by his wife Azubah, and by Jerioth; and these were her sons: Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
19:When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
20:Hur fathered Uri, and Uri fathered Bezalel.
21:Afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was sixty years old, and she bore him Segub.
22:And Segub fathered Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
23:But Geshur and Aram took from them Havvoth-jair, Kenath, and its villages, sixty towns. All these were descendants of Machir, the father of Gilead.
24:After the death of Hezron, Caleb went in to Ephrathah, the wife of Hezron his father, and she bore him Ashhur, the father of Tekoa.
25:The sons of Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron: Ram, his firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
26:Jerahmeel also had another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.
27:The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel: Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
28:The sons of Onam: Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
29:The name of Abishur's wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid.
30:The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim; and Seled died childless.
31:The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
32:The sons of Jada, Shammai's brother: Jether and Jonathan; and Jether died childless.
33:The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
34:Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters, but Sheshan had an Egyptian slave whose name was Jarha.
35:So Sheshan gave his daughter in marriage to Jarha his slave, and she bore him Attai.
36:Attai fathered Nathan, and Nathan fathered Zabad.
37:Zabad fathered Ephlal, and Ephlal fathered Obed.
38:Obed fathered Jehu, and Jehu fathered Azariah.
39:Azariah fathered Helez, and Helez fathered Eleasah.
40:Eleasah fathered Sismai, and Sismai fathered Shallum.
41:Shallum fathered Jekamiah, and Jekamiah fathered Elishama.
42:The sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel: Mareshah his firstborn, who fathered Ziph. The son of Mareshah: Hebron.
43:The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem and Shema.
44:Shema fathered Raham, the father of Jorkeam; and Rekem fathered Shammai.
45:The son of Shammai: Maon; and Maon fathered Beth-zur.
46:Ephah also, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; and Haran fathered Gazez.
47:The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.
48:Maacah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
49:She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah and the father of Gibea; and the daughter of Caleb was Achsah.
50:These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur the firstborn of Ephrathah: Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim, 
51:Salma, the father of Bethlehem, and Hareph the father of Beth-gader.
52:Shobal the father of Kiriath-jearim had other sons: Haroeh, half of the Menuhoth.
53:And the clans of Kiriath-jearim: the Ithrites, the Puthites, the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; from these came the Zorathites and the Eshtaolites.
54:The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth-beth-joab and half of the Manahathites, the Zorites.
55:The clans also of the scribes who lived at Jabez: the Tirathites, the Shimeathites and the Sucathites. These are the Kenites who came from Hammath, the father of the house of Rechab.
