1:The righteous man perishes, and no one lays it to heart; devout men are taken away, while no one understands. For the righteous man is taken away from calamity; 
2:he enters into peace; they rest in their beds who walk in their uprightness. 
3:But you, draw near, sons of the sorceress, offspring of the adulterer and the loose woman. 
4:Whom are you mocking? Against whom do you open your mouth wide and stick out your tongue? Are you not children of transgression, the offspring of deceit, 
5:you who burn with lust among the oaks, under every green tree, who slaughter your children in the valleys, under the clefts of the rocks? 
6:Among the smooth stones of the valley is your portion; they, they, are your lot; to them you have poured out a drink offering, you have brought a grain offering. Shall I relent for these things? 
7:On a high and lofty mountain you have set your bed, and there you went up to offer sacrifice. 
8:Behind the door and the doorpost you have set up your memorial; for, deserting me, you have uncovered your bed, you have gone up to it, you have made it wide; and you have made a covenant for yourself with them, you have loved their bed, you have looked on nakedness. 
9:You journeyed to the king with oil and multiplied your perfumes; you sent your envoys far off, and sent down even to Sheol. 
10:You were wearied with the length of your way, but you did not say, "It is hopeless"; you found new life for your strength, and so you were not faint. 
11:Whom did you dread and fear, so that you lied, and did not remember me, did not lay it to heart? Have I not held my peace, even for a long time, and you do not fear me? 
12:I will declare your righteousness and your deeds, but they will not profit you. 
13:When you cry out, let your collection of idols deliver you! The wind will carry them off, a breath will take them away. But he who takes refuge in me shall possess the land and shall inherit my holy mountain. 
14:And it shall be said, "Build up, build up, prepare the way, remove every obstruction from my people's way." 
15:For thus says the One who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy: "I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of a contrite and lowly spirit, to revive the spirit of the lowly, and to revive the heart of the contrite. 
16:For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry; for the spirit would grow faint before me, and the breath of life that I made. 
17:Because of the iniquity of his unjust gain I was angry, I struck him; I hid my face and was angry, but he went on backsliding in the way of his own heart. 
18:I have seen his ways, but I will heal him; I will lead him and restore comfort to him and his mourners, 
19:creating the fruit of the lips. Peace, peace, to the far and to the near," says the LORD, "and I will heal him. 
20:But the wicked are like the tossing sea; for it cannot be quiet, and its waters toss up mire and dirt. 
21:There is no peace," says my God, "for the wicked." 
