1:Then Elihu answered and said:
2:"Hear my words, you wise men, and give ear to me, you who know; 
3:for the ear tests words as the palate tastes food. 
4:Let us choose what is right; let us know among ourselves what is good. 
5:For Job has said, 'I am in the right, and God has taken away my right; 
6:in spite of my right I am counted a liar; my wound is incurable, though I am without transgression.' 
7:What man is like Job, who drinks up scoffing like water, 
8:who travels in company with evildoers and walks with wicked men? 
9:For he has said, 'It profits a man nothing that he should take delight in God.' 
10:"Therefore, hear me, you men of understanding: far be it from God that he should do wickedness, and from the Almighty that he should do wrong. 
11:For according to the work of a man he will repay him, and according to his ways he will make it befall him. 
12:Of a truth, God will not do wickedly, and the Almighty will not pervert justice. 
13:Who gave him charge over the earth, and who laid on him the whole world? 
14:If he should set his heart to it and gather to himself his spirit and his breath, 
15:all flesh would perish together, and man would return to dust. 
16:"If you have understanding, hear this; listen to what I say. 
17:Shall one who hates justice govern? Will you condemn him who is righteous and mighty, 
18:who says to a king, 'Worthless one,' and to nobles, 'Wicked man,' 
19:who shows no partiality to princes, nor regards the rich more than the poor, for they are all the work of his hands? 
20:In a moment they die; at midnight the people are shaken and pass away, and the mighty are taken away by no human hand. 
21:"For his eyes are on the ways of a man, and he sees all his steps. 
22:There is no gloom or deep darkness where evildoers may hide themselves. 
23:For God has no need to consider a man further, that he should go before God in judgment. 
24:He shatters the mighty without investigation and sets others in their place. 
25:Thus, knowing their works, he overturns them in the night, and they are crushed. 
26:He strikes them for their wickedness in a place for all to see, 
27:because they turned aside from following him and had no regard for any of his ways, 
28:so that they caused the cry of the poor to come to him, and he heard the cry of the afflicted- 
29:When he is quiet, who can condemn? When he hides his face, who can behold him, whether it be a nation or a man?- 
30:that a godless man should not reign, that he should not ensnare the people. 
31:"For has anyone said to God, 'I have borne punishment; I will not offend any more; 
32:teach me what I do not see; if I have done iniquity, I will do it no more'? 
33:Will he then make repayment to suit you, because you reject it? For you must choose, and not I; therefore declare what you know. 
34:Men of understanding will say to me, and the wise man who hears me will say: 
35:'Job speaks without knowledge; his words are without insight.' 
36:Would that Job were tried to the end, because he answers like wicked men. 
37:For he adds rebellion to his sin; he claps his hands among us and multiplies his words against God." 
