1:"For behold, in those days and at that time, when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem,
2:I will gather all the nations and bring them down to the Valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will enter into judgment with them there, on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them among the nations and have divided up my land,
3:and have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine and have drunk it.
4:"What are you to me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the regions of Philistia? Are you paying me back for something? If you are paying me back, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily.
5:For you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my rich treasures into your temples.
6:You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the Greeks in order to remove them far from their own border.
7:Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on your own head.
8:I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabeans, to a nation far away, for the LORD has spoken."
9:Proclaim this among the nations: Consecrate for war; stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near; let them come up. 
10:Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, "I am a warrior." 
11:Hasten and come, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves there. Bring down your warriors, O LORD. 
12:Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the Valley of Jehoshaphat; for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. 
13:Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the winepress is full. The vats overflow, for their evil is great. 
14:Multitudes, multitudes, in the valley of decision! For the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision. 
15:The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. 
16:The LORD roars from Zion, and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth quake. But the LORD is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. 
17:"So you shall know that I am the LORD your God, who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never again pass through it. 
18:"And in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the streambeds of Judah shall flow with water; and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the LORD and water the Valley of Shittim. 
19:"Egypt shall become a desolation and Edom a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land. 
20:But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations. 
21:I will avenge their blood, blood I have not avenged, for the LORD dwells in Zion." 
