1:So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
2:Then Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, burned with anger. He burned with anger at Job because he justified himself rather than God.
3:He burned with anger also at Job's three friends because they had found no answer, although they had declared Job to be in the wrong.
4:Now Elihu had waited to speak to Job because they were older than he.
5:And when Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, he burned with anger.
6:And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said: "I am young in years, and you are aged; therefore I was timid and afraid to declare my opinion to you. 
7:I said, 'Let days speak, and many years teach wisdom.' 
8:But it is the spirit in man, the breath of the Almighty, that makes him understand. 
9:It is not the old who are wise, nor the aged who understand what is right. 
10:Therefore I say, 'Listen to me; let me also declare my opinion.' 
11:"Behold, I waited for your words, I listened for your wise sayings, while you searched out what to say. 
12:I gave you my attention, and, behold, there was none among you who refuted Job or who answered his words. 
13:Beware lest you say, 'We have found wisdom; God may vanquish him, not a man.' 
14:He has not directed his words against me, and I will not answer him with your speeches. 
15:"They are dismayed; they answer no more; they have not a word to say. 
16:And shall I wait, because they do not speak, because they stand there, and answer no more? 
17:I also will answer with my share; I also will declare my opinion. 
18:For I am full of words; the spirit within me constrains me. 
19:Behold, my belly is like wine that has no vent; like new wineskins ready to burst. 
20:I must speak, that I may find relief; I must open my lips and answer. 
21:I will not show partiality to any man or use flattery toward any person. 
22:For I do not know how to flatter, else my Maker would soon take me away. 
