1:My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments, 
2:for length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you. 
3:Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you; bind them around your neck; write them on the tablet of your heart. 
4:So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. 
5:Trust in the LORD with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. 
6:In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. 
7:Be not wise in your own eyes; fear the LORD, and turn away from evil. 
8:It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. 
9:Honor the LORD with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your produce; 
10:then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine. 
11:My son, do not despise the LORD's discipline or be weary of his reproof, 
12:for the LORD reproves him whom he loves, as a father the son in whom he delights. 
13:Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding, 
14:for the gain from her is better than gain from silver and her profit better than gold. 
15:She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her. 
16:Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor. 
17:Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. 
18:She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her; those who hold her fast are called blessed. 
19:The LORD by wisdom founded the earth; by understanding he established the heavens; 
20:by his knowledge the deeps broke open, and the clouds drop down the dew. 
21:My son, do not lose sight of these- keep sound wisdom and discretion, 
22:and they will be life for your soul and adornment for your neck. 
23:Then you will walk on your way securely, and your foot will not stumble. 
24:If you lie down, you will not be afraid; when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. 
25:Do not be afraid of sudden terror or of the ruin of the wicked, when it comes, 
26:for the LORD will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. 
27:Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to do it. 
28:Do not say to your neighbor, "Go, and come again, tomorrow I will give it"-when you have it with you. 
29:Do not plan evil against your neighbor, who dwells trustingly beside you. 
30:Do not contend with a man for no reason, when he has done you no harm. 
31:Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways, 
32:for the devious person is an abomination to the LORD, but the upright are in his confidence. 
33:The LORD's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. 
34:Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor. 
35:The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace. 
