1:Woe to her who is rebellious and defiled, the oppressing city! 
2:She listens to no voice; she accepts no correction. She does not trust in the LORD; she does not draw near to her God. 
3:Her officials within her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves that leave nothing till the morning. 
4:Her prophets are fickle, treacherous men; her priests profane what is holy; they do violence to the law. 
5:The LORD within her is righteous; he does no injustice; every morning he shows forth his justice; each dawn he does not fail; but the unjust knows no shame. 
6:"I have cut off nations; their battlements are in ruins; I have laid waste their streets so that no one walks in them; their cities have been made desolate, without a man, without an inhabitant. 
7:I said, 'Surely you will fear me; you will accept correction. Then your dwelling would not be cut off according to all that I have appointed against you.' But all the more they were eager to make all their deeds corrupt. 
8:"Therefore wait for me," declares the LORD, "for the day when I rise up to seize the prey. For my decision is to gather nations, to assemble kingdoms, to pour out upon them my indignation, all my burning anger; for in the fire of my jealousy all the earth shall be consumed. 
9:"For at that time I will change the speech of the peoples to a pure speech, that all of them may call upon the name of the LORD and serve him with one accord. 
10:From beyond the rivers of Cush my worshipers, the daughter of my dispersed ones, shall bring my offering. 
11:"On that day you shall not be put to shame because of the deeds by which you have rebelled against me; for then I will remove from your midst your proudly exultant ones, and you shall no longer be haughty in my holy mountain. 
12:But I will leave in your midst a people humble and lowly. They shall seek refuge in the name of the LORD, 
13:those who are left in Israel; they shall do no injustice and speak no lies, nor shall there be found in their mouth a deceitful tongue. For they shall graze and lie down, and none shall make them afraid." 
14:Sing aloud, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel! Rejoice and exult with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem! 
15:The LORD has taken away the judgments against you; he has cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the LORD, is in your midst; you shall never again fear evil. 
16:On that day it shall be said to Jerusalem: "Fear not, O Zion; let not your hands grow weak. 
17:The LORD your God is in your midst, a mighty one who will save; he will rejoice over you with gladness; he will quiet you by his love; he will exult over you with loud singing. 
18:I will gather those of you who mourn for the festival, so that you will no longer suffer reproach. 
19:Behold, at that time I will deal with all your oppressors. And I will save the lame and gather the outcast, and I will change their shame into praise and renown in all the earth. 
20:At that time I will bring you in, at the time when I gather you together; for I will make you renowned and praised among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes," says the LORD. 
