1:Be not silent, O God of my praise! 
2:For wicked and deceitful mouths are opened against me, speaking against me with lying tongues. 
3:They encircle me with words of hate, and attack me without cause. 
4:In return for my love they accuse me, but I give myself to prayer. 
5:So they reward me evil for good, and hatred for my love. 
6:Appoint a wicked man against him; let an accuser stand at his right hand. 
7:When he is tried, let him come forth guilty; let his prayer be counted as sin! 
8:May his days be few; may another take his office! 
9:May his children be fatherless and his wife a widow! 
10:May his children wander about and beg, seeking food far from the ruins they inhabit! 
11:May the creditor seize all that he has; may strangers plunder the fruits of his toil! 
12:Let there be none to extend kindness to him, nor any to pity his fatherless children! 
13:May his posterity be cut off; may his name be blotted out in the second generation! 
14:May the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out! 
15:Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth! 
16:For he did not remember to show kindness, but pursued the poor and needy and the brokenhearted, to put them to death. 
17:He loved to curse; let curses come upon him! He did not delight in blessing; may it be far from him! 
18:He clothed himself with cursing as his coat; may it soak into his body like water, like oil into his bones! 
19:May it be like a garment that he wraps around him, like a belt that he puts on every day! 
20:May this be the reward of my accusers from the LORD, of those who speak evil against my life! 
21:But you, O GOD my Lord, deal on my behalf for your name's sake; because your steadfast love is good, deliver me! 
22:For I am poor and needy, and my heart is stricken within me. 
23:I am gone like a shadow at evening; I am shaken off like a locust. 
24:My knees are weak through fasting; my body has become gaunt, with no fat. 
25:I am an object of scorn to my accusers; when they see me, they wag their heads. 
26:Help me, O LORD my God! Save me according to your steadfast love! 
27:Let them know that this is your hand; you, O LORD, have done it! 
28:Let them curse, but you will bless! They arise and are put to shame, but your servant will be glad! 
29:May my accusers be clothed with dishonor; may they be wrapped in their own shame as in a cloak! 
30:With my mouth I will give great thanks to the LORD; I will praise him in the midst of the throng. 
31:For he stands at the right hand of the needy one, to save him from those who condemn his soul to death. 
