1:Then Job answered and said:
2:"How long will you torment me and break me in pieces with words? 
3:These ten times you have cast reproach upon me; are you not ashamed to wrong me? 
4:And even if it be true that I have erred, my error remains with myself. 
5:If indeed you magnify yourselves against me and make my disgrace an argument against me, 
6:know then that God has put me in the wrong and closed his net about me. 
7:Behold, I cry out, 'Violence!' but I am not answered; I call for help, but there is no justice. 
8:He has walled up my way, so that I cannot pass, and he has set darkness upon my paths. 
9:He has stripped from me my glory and taken the crown from my head. 
10:He breaks me down on every side, and I am gone, and my hope has he pulled up like a tree. 
11:He has kindled his wrath against me and counts me as his adversary. 
12:His troops come on together; they have cast up their siege ramp against me and encamp around my tent. 
13:"He has put my brothers far from me, and those who knew me are wholly estranged from me. 
14:My relatives have failed me, my close friends have forgotten me. 
15:The guests in my house and my maidservants count me as a stranger; I have become a foreigner in their eyes. 
16:I call to my servant, but he gives me no answer; I must plead with him with my mouth for mercy. 
17:My breath is strange to my wife, and I am a stench to the children of my own mother. 
18:Even young children despise me; when I rise they talk against me. 
19:All my intimate friends abhor me, and those whom I loved have turned against me. 
20:My bones stick to my skin and to my flesh, and I have escaped by the skin of my teeth. 
21:Have mercy on me, have mercy on me, O you my friends, for the hand of God has touched me! 
22:Why do you, like God, pursue me? Why are you not satisfied with my flesh? 
23:"Oh that my words were written! Oh that they were inscribed in a book! 
24:Oh that with an iron pen and lead they were engraved in the rock forever! 
25:For I know that my Redeemer lives, and at the last he will stand upon the earth. 
26:And after my skin has been thus destroyed, yet in my flesh I shall see God, 
27:whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another. My heart faints within me! 
28:If you say, 'How we will pursue him!' and, 'The root of the matter is found in him,' 
29:be afraid of the sword, for wrath brings the punishment of the sword, that you may know there is a judgment." 
