1:A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. 
2:The tongue of the wise commends knowledge, but the mouths of fools pour out folly. 
3:The eyes of the LORD are in every place, keeping watch on the evil and the good. 
4:A gentle tongue is a tree of life, but perverseness in it breaks the spirit. 
5:A fool despises his father's instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is prudent. 
6:In the house of the righteous there is much treasure, but trouble befalls the income of the wicked. 
7:The lips of the wise spread knowledge; not so the hearts of fools. 
8:The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, but the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him. 
9:The way of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD, but he loves him who pursues righteousness. 
10:There is severe discipline for him who forsakes the way; whoever hates reproof will die. 
11:Sheol and Abaddon lie open before the LORD; how much more the hearts of the children of man! 
12:A scoffer does not like to be reproved; he will not go to the wise. 
13:A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is crushed. 
14:The heart of him who has understanding seeks knowledge, but the mouths of fools feed on folly. 
15:All the days of the afflicted are evil, but the cheerful of heart has a continual feast. 
16:Better is a little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble with it. 
17:Better is a dinner of herbs where love is than a fattened ox and hatred with it. 
18:A hot-tempered man stirs up strife, but he who is slow to anger quiets contention. 
19:The way of a sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is a level highway. 
20:A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish man despises his mother. 
21:Folly is a joy to him who lacks sense, but a man of understanding walks straight ahead. 
22:Without counsel plans fail, but with many advisers they succeed. 
23:To make an apt answer is a joy to a man, and a word in season, how good it is! 
24:The path of life leads upward for the prudent, that he may turn away from Sheol beneath. 
25:The LORD tears down the house of the proud but maintains the widow's boundaries. 
26:The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD, but gracious words are pure. 
27:Whoever is greedy for unjust gain troubles his own household, but he who hates bribes will live. 
28:The heart of the righteous ponders how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things. 
29:The LORD is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. 
30:The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, and good news refreshes the bones. 
31:The ear that listens to life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise. 
32:Whoever ignores instruction despises himself, but he who listens to reproof gains intelligence. 
33:The fear of the LORD is instruction in wisdom, and humility comes before honor. 
