1:The words of Agur son of Jakeh. The oracle. The man declares, I am weary, O God; I am weary, O God, and worn out. 
2:Surely I am too stupid to be a man. I have not the understanding of a man. 
3:I have not learned wisdom, nor have I knowledge of the Holy One. 
4:Who has ascended to heaven and come down? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has wrapped up the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son's name? Surely you know! 
5:Every word of God proves true; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him. 
6:Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. 
7:Two things I ask of you; deny them not to me before I die: 
8:Remove far from me falsehood and lying; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is needful for me, 
9:lest I be full and deny you and say, "Who is the LORD?" or lest I be poor and steal and profane the name of my God. 
10:Do not slander a servant to his master, lest he curse you, and you be held guilty. 
11:There are those who curse their fathers and do not bless their mothers. 
12:There are those who are clean in their own eyes but are not washed of their filth. 
13:There are those-how lofty are their eyes, how high their eyelids lift! 
14:There are those whose teeth are swords, whose fangs are knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, the needy from among mankind. 
15:The leech has two daughters: Give and Give. Three things are never satisfied; four never say, "Enough": 
16:Sheol, the barren womb, the land never satisfied with water, and the fire that never says, "Enough." 
17:The eye that mocks a father and scorns to obey a mother will be picked out by the ravens of the valley and eaten by the vultures. 
18:Three things are too wonderful for me; four I do not understand: 
19:the way of an eagle in the sky, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship on the high seas, and the way of a man with a virgin. 
20:This is the way of an adulteress: she eats and wipes her mouth and says, "I have done no wrong." 
21:Under three things the earth trembles; under four it cannot bear up: 
22:a slave when he becomes king, and a fool when he is filled with food; 
23:an unloved woman when she gets a husband, and a maidservant when she displaces her mistress. 
24:Four things on earth are small, but they are exceedingly wise: 
25:the ants are a people not strong, yet they provide their food in the summer; 
26:the rock badgers are a people not mighty, yet they make their homes in the cliffs; 
27:the locusts have no king, yet all of them march in rank; 
28:the lizard you can take in your hands, yet it is in kings' palaces. 
29:Three things are stately in their tread; four are stately in their stride: 
30:the lion, which is mightiest among beasts and does not turn back before any; 
31:the strutting rooster, the he-goat, and a king whose army is with him. 
32:If you have been foolish, exalting yourself, or if you have been devising evil, put your hand on your mouth. 
33:For pressing milk produces curds, pressing the nose produces blood, and pressing anger produces strife. 
