1:Hear, O sons, a father's instruction, and be attentive, that you may gain insight, 
2:for I give you good precepts; do not forsake my teaching. 
3:When I was a son with my father, tender, the only one in the sight of my mother, 
4:he taught me and said to me, "Let your heart hold fast my words; keep my commandments, and live. 
5:Get wisdom; get insight; do not forget, and do not turn away from the words of my mouth. 
6:Do not forsake her, and she will keep you; love her, and she will guard you. 
7:The beginning of wisdom is this: Get wisdom, and whatever you get, get insight. 
8:Prize her highly, and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her. 
9:She will place on your head a graceful garland; she will bestow on you a beautiful crown." 
10:Hear, my son, and accept my words, that the years of your life may be many. 
11:I have taught you the way of wisdom; I have led you in the paths of uprightness. 
12:When you walk, your step will not be hampered, and if you run, you will not stumble. 
13:Keep hold of instruction; do not let go; guard her, for she is your life. 
14:Do not enter the path of the wicked, and do not walk in the way of the evil. 
15:Avoid it; do not go on it; turn away from it and pass on. 
16:For they cannot sleep unless they have done wrong; they are robbed of sleep unless they have made someone stumble. 
17:For they eat the bread of wickedness and drink the wine of violence. 
18:But the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn, which shines brighter and brighter until full day. 
19:The way of the wicked is like deep darkness; they do not know over what they stumble. 
20:My son, be attentive to my words; incline your ear to my sayings. 
21:Let them not escape from your sight; keep them within your heart. 
22:For they are life to those who find them, and healing to all their flesh. 
23:Keep your heart with all vigilance, for from it flow the springs of life. 
24:Put away from you crooked speech, and put devious talk far from you. 
25:Let your eyes look directly forward, and your gaze be straight before you. 
26:Ponder the path of your feet; then all your ways will be sure. 
27:Do not swerve to the right or to the left; turn your foot away from evil. 
