1:Flee for safety, O people of Benjamin, from the midst of Jerusalem! Blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and raise a signal on Beth-haccherem, for disaster looms out of the north, and great destruction. 
2:The lovely and delicately bred I will destroy, the daughter of Zion. 
3:Shepherds with their flocks shall come against her; they shall pitch their tents around her; they shall pasture, each in his place. 
4:"Prepare war against her; arise, and let us attack at noon! Woe to us, for the day declines, for the shadows of evening lengthen! 
5:Arise, and let us attack by night and destroy her palaces!" 
6:For thus says the LORD of hosts: "Cut down her trees; cast up a siege mound against Jerusalem. This is the city that must be punished; there is nothing but oppression within her. 
7:As a well keeps its water fresh, so she keeps fresh her evil; violence and destruction are heard within her; sickness and wounds are ever before me. 
8:Be warned, O Jerusalem, lest I turn from you in disgust, lest I make you a desolation, an uninhabited land." 
9:Thus says the LORD of hosts: "They shall glean thoroughly as a vine the remnant of Israel; like a grape-gatherer pass your hand again over its branches." 
10:To whom shall I speak and give warning, that they may hear? Behold, their ears are uncircumcised, they cannot listen; behold, the word of the LORD is to them an object of scorn; they take no pleasure in it. 
11:Therefore I am full of the wrath of the LORD; I am weary of holding it in. "Pour it out upon the children in the street, and upon the gatherings of young men, also; both husband and wife shall be taken, the elderly and the very aged. 
12:Their houses shall be turned over to others, their fields and wives together, for I will stretch out my hand against the inhabitants of the land," declares the LORD. 
13:"For from the least to the greatest of them, everyone is greedy for unjust gain; and from prophet to priest, everyone deals falsely. 
14:They have healed the wound of my people lightly, saying, 'Peace, peace,' when there is no peace. 
15:Were they ashamed when they committed abomination? No, they were not at all ashamed; they did not know how to blush. Therefore they shall fall among those who fall; at the time that I punish them, they shall be overthrown," says the LORD. 
16:Thus says the LORD: "Stand by the roads, and look, and ask for the ancient paths, where the good way is; and walk in it, and find rest for your souls. But they said, 'We will not walk in it.' 
17:I set watchmen over you, saying, 'Pay attention to the sound of the trumpet!' But they said, 'We will not pay attention.' 
18:Therefore hear, O nations, and know, O congregation, what will happen to them. 
19:Hear, O earth; behold, I am bringing disaster upon this people, the fruit of their devices, because they have not paid attention to my words; and as for my law, they have rejected it. 
20:What use to me is frankincense that comes from Sheba, or sweet cane from a distant land? Your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices pleasing to me. 
21:Therefore thus says the LORD: 'Behold, I will lay before this people stumbling blocks against which they shall stumble; fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend shall perish.'" 
22:Thus says the LORD: "Behold, a people is coming from the north country, a great nation is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth. 
23:They lay hold on bow and javelin; they are cruel and have no mercy; the sound of them is like the roaring sea; they ride on horses, set in array as a man for battle, against you, O daughter of Zion!" 
24:We have heard the report of it; our hands fall helpless; anguish has taken hold of us, pain as of a woman in labor. 
25:Go not out into the field, nor walk on the road, for the enemy has a sword; terror is on every side. 
26:O daughter of my people, put on sackcloth, and roll in ashes; make mourning as for an only son, most bitter lamentation, for suddenly the destroyer will come upon us. 
27:"I have made you a tester of metals among my people, that you may know and test their ways. 
28:They are all stubbornly rebellious, going about with slanders; they are bronze and iron; all of them act corruptly. 
29:The bellows blow fiercely; the lead is consumed by the fire; in vain the refining goes on, for the wicked are not removed. 
30:Rejected silver they are called, for the LORD has rejected them." 
