1:Then Job answered and said:
2:"Keep listening to my words, and let this be your comfort. 
3:Bear with me, and I will speak, and after I have spoken, mock on. 
4:As for me, is my complaint against man? Why should I not be impatient? 
5:Look at me and be appalled, and lay your hand over your mouth. 
6:When I remember, I am dismayed, and shuddering seizes my flesh. 
7:Why do the wicked live, reach old age, and grow mighty in power? 
8:Their offspring are established in their presence, and their descendants before their eyes. 
9:Their houses are safe from fear, and no rod of God is upon them. 
10:Their bull breeds without fail; their cow calves and does not miscarry. 
11:They send out their little boys like a flock, and their children dance. 
12:They sing to the tambourine and the lyre and rejoice to the sound of the pipe. 
13:They spend their days in prosperity, and in peace they go down to Sheol. 
14:They say to God, 'Depart from us! We do not desire the knowledge of your ways. 
15:What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? And what profit do we get if we pray to him?' 
16:Behold, is not their prosperity in their hand? The counsel of the wicked is far from me. 
17:"How often is it that the lamp of the wicked is put out? That their calamity comes upon them? That God distributes pains in his anger? 
18:That they are like straw before the wind, and like chaff that the storm carries away? 
19:You say, 'God stores up their iniquity for their children.' Let him pay it out to them, that they may know it. 
20:Let their own eyes see their destruction, and let them drink of the wrath of the Almighty. 
21:For what do they care for their houses after them, when the number of their months is cut off? 
22:Will any teach God knowledge, seeing that he judges those who are on high? 
23:One dies in his full vigor, being wholly at ease and secure, 
24:his pails full of milk and the marrow of his bones moist. 
25:Another dies in bitterness of soul, never having tasted of prosperity. 
26:They lie down alike in the dust, and the worms cover them. 
27:"Behold, I know your thoughts and your schemes to wrong me. 
28:For you say, 'Where is the house of the prince? Where is the tent in which the wicked lived?' 
29:Have you not asked those who travel the roads, and do you not accept their testimony 
30:that the evil man is spared in the day of calamity, that he is rescued in the day of wrath? 
31:Who declares his way to his face, and who repays him for what he has done? 
32:When he is carried to the grave, watch is kept over his tomb. 
33:The clods of the valley are sweet to him; all mankind follows after him, and those who go before him are innumerable. 
34:How then will you comfort me with empty nothings? There is nothing left of your answers but falsehood." 
