1:The king's heart is a stream of water in the hand of the LORD; he turns it wherever he will. 
2:Every way of a man is right in his own eyes, but the LORD weighs the heart. 
3:To do righteousness and justice is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice. 
4:Haughty eyes and a proud heart, the lamp of the wicked, are sin. 
5:The plans of the diligent lead surely to abundance, but everyone who is hasty comes only to poverty. 
6:The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a fleeting vapor and a snare of death. 
7:The violence of the wicked will sweep them away, because they refuse to do what is just. 
8:The way of the guilty is crooked, but the conduct of the pure is upright. 
9:It is better to live in a corner of the housetop than in a house shared with a quarrelsome wife. 
10:The soul of the wicked desires evil; his neighbor finds no mercy in his eyes. 
11:When a scoffer is punished, the simple becomes wise; when a wise man is instructed, he gains knowledge. 
12:The Righteous One observes the house of the wicked; he throws the wicked down to ruin. 
13:Whoever closes his ear to the cry of the poor will himself call out and not be answered. 
14:A gift in secret averts anger, and a concealed bribe, strong wrath. 
15:When justice is done, it is a joy to the righteous but terror to evildoers. 
16:One who wanders from the way of good sense will rest in the assembly of the dead. 
17:Whoever loves pleasure will be a poor man; he who loves wine and oil will not be rich. 
18:The wicked is a ransom for the righteous, and the traitor for the upright. 
19:It is better to live in a desert land than with a quarrelsome and fretful woman. 
20:Precious treasure and oil are in a wise man's dwelling, but a foolish man devours it. 
21:Whoever pursues righteousness and kindness will find life, righteousness, and honor. 
22:A wise man scales the city of the mighty and brings down the stronghold in which they trust. 
23:Whoever keeps his mouth and his tongue keeps himself out of trouble. 
24:"Scoffer" is the name of the arrogant, haughty man who acts with arrogant pride. 
25:The desire of the sluggard kills him, for his hands refuse to labor. 
26:All day long he craves and craves, but the righteous gives and does not hold back. 
27:The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination; how much more when he brings it with evil intent. 
28:A false witness will perish, but the word of a man who hears will endure. 
29:A wicked man puts on a bold face, but the upright gives thought to his ways. 
30:No wisdom, no understanding, no counsel can avail against the LORD. 
31:The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but the victory belongs to the LORD. 
