1:Does not wisdom call? Does not understanding raise her voice? 
2:On the heights beside the way, at the crossroads she takes her stand; 
3:beside the gates in front of the town, at the entrance of the portals she cries aloud: 
4:"To you, O men, I call, and my cry is to the children of man. 
5:O simple ones, learn prudence; O fools, learn sense. 
6:Hear, for I will speak noble things, and from my lips will come what is right, 
7:for my mouth will utter truth; wickedness is an abomination to my lips. 
8:All the words of my mouth are righteous; there is nothing twisted or crooked in them. 
9:They are all straight to him who understands, and right to those who find knowledge. 
10:Take my instruction instead of silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold, 
11:for wisdom is better than jewels, and all that you may desire cannot compare with her. 
12:"I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion. 
13:The fear of the LORD is hatred of evil. Pride and arrogance and the way of evil and perverted speech I hate. 
14:I have counsel and sound wisdom; I have insight; I have strength. 
15:By me kings reign, and rulers decree what is just; 
16:by me princes rule, and nobles, all who govern justly. 
17:I love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently find me. 
18:Riches and honor are with me, enduring wealth and righteousness. 
19:My fruit is better than gold, even fine gold, and my yield than choice silver. 
20:I walk in the way of righteousness, in the paths of justice, 
21:granting an inheritance to those who love me, and filling their treasuries. 
22:"The LORD possessed me at the beginning of his work, the first of his acts of old. 
23:Ages ago I was set up, at the first, before the beginning of the earth. 
24:When there were no depths I was brought forth, when there were no springs abounding with water. 
25:Before the mountains had been shaped, before the hills, I was brought forth, 
26:before he had made the earth with its fields, or the first of the dust of the world. 
27:When he established the heavens, I was there; when he drew a circle on the face of the deep, 
28:when he made firm the skies above, when he established the fountains of the deep, 
29:when he assigned to the sea its limit, so that the waters might not transgress his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth, 
30:then I was beside him, like a master workman, and I was daily his delight, rejoicing before him always, 
31:rejoicing in his inhabited world and delighting in the children of man. 
32:"And now, O sons, listen to me: blessed are those who keep my ways. 
33:Hear instruction and be wise, and do not neglect it. 
34:Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching daily at my gates, waiting beside my doors. 
35:For whoever finds me finds life and obtains favor from the LORD, 
36:but he who fails to find me injures himself; all who hate me love death." 
