1:And Elihu continued, and said:
2:"Bear with me a little, and I will show you, for I have yet something to say on God's behalf. 
3:I will get my knowledge from afar and ascribe righteousness to my Maker. 
4:For truly my words are not false; one who is perfect in knowledge is with you. 
5:"Behold, God is mighty, and does not despise any; he is mighty in strength of understanding. 
6:He does not keep the wicked alive, but gives the afflicted their right. 
7:He does not withdraw his eyes from the righteous, but with kings on the throne he sets them forever, and they are exalted. 
8:And if they are bound in chains and caught in the cords of affliction, 
9:then he declares to them their work and their transgressions, that they are behaving arrogantly. 
10:He opens their ears to instruction and commands that they return from iniquity. 
11:If they listen and serve him, they complete their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasantness. 
12:But if they do not listen, they perish by the sword and die without knowledge. 
13:"The godless in heart cherish anger; they do not cry for help when he binds them. 
14:They die in youth, and their life ends among the cult prostitutes. 
15:He delivers the afflicted by their affliction and opens their ear by adversity. 
16:He also allured you out of distress into a broad place where there was no cramping, and what was set on your table was full of fatness. 
17:"But you are full of the judgment on the wicked; judgment and justice seize you. 
18:Beware lest wrath entice you into scoffing, and let not the greatness of the ransom turn you aside. 
19:Will your cry for help avail to keep you from distress, or all the force of your strength? 
20:Do not long for the night, when peoples vanish in their place. 
21:Take care; do not turn to iniquity, for this you have chosen rather than affliction. 
22:Behold, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him? 
23:Who has prescribed for him his way, or who can say, 'You have done wrong'? 
24:"Remember to extol his work, of which men have sung. 
25:All mankind has looked on it; man beholds it from afar. 
26:Behold, God is great, and we know him not; the number of his years is unsearchable. 
27:For he draws up the drops of water; they distill his mist in rain, 
28:which the skies pour down and drop on mankind abundantly. 
29:Can anyone understand the spreading of the clouds, the thunderings of his pavilion? 
30:Behold, he scatters his lightning about him and covers the roots of the sea. 
31:For by these he judges peoples; he gives food in abundance. 
32:He covers his hands with the lightning and commands it to strike the mark. 
33:Its crashing declares his presence; the cattle also declare that he rises. 
