1:"But now they laugh at me, men who are younger than I, whose fathers I would have disdained to set with the dogs of my flock. 
2:What could I gain from the strength of their hands, men whose vigor is gone? 
3:Through want and hard hunger they gnaw the dry ground by night in waste and desolation; 
4:they pick saltwort and the leaves of bushes, and the roots of the broom tree for their food. 
5:They are driven out from human company; they shout after them as after a thief. 
6:In the gullies of the torrents they must dwell, in holes of the earth and of the rocks. 
7:Among the bushes they bray; under the nettles they huddle together. 
8:A senseless, a nameless brood, they have been whipped out of the land. 
9:"And now I have become their song; I am a byword to them. 
10:They abhor me; they keep aloof from me; they do not hesitate to spit at the sight of me. 
11:Because God has loosed my cord and humbled me, they have cast off restraint in my presence. 
12:On my right hand the rabble rise; they push away my feet; they cast up against me their ways of destruction. 
13:They break up my path; they promote my calamity; they need no one to help them. 
14:As through a wide breach they come; amid the crash they roll on. 
15:Terrors are turned upon me; my honor is pursued as by the wind, and my prosperity has passed away like a cloud. 
16:"And now my soul is poured out within me; days of affliction have taken hold of me. 
17:The night racks my bones, and the pain that gnaws me takes no rest. 
18:With great force my garment is disfigured; it binds me about like the collar of my tunic. 
19:God has cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes. 
20:I cry to you for help and you do not answer me; I stand, and you only look at me. 
21:You have turned cruel to me; with the might of your hand you persecute me. 
22:You lift me up on the wind; you make me ride on it, and you toss me about in the roar of the storm. 
23:For I know that you will bring me to death and to the house appointed for all living. 
24:"Yet does not one in a heap of ruins stretch out his hand, and in his disaster cry for help? 
25:Did not I weep for him whose day was hard? Was not my soul grieved for the needy? 
26:But when I hoped for good, evil came, and when I waited for light, darkness came. 
27:My inward parts are in turmoil and never still; days of affliction come to meet me. 
28:I go about darkened, but not by the sun; I stand up in the assembly and cry for help. 
29:I am a brother of jackals and a companion of ostriches. 
30:My skin turns black and falls from me, and my bones burn with heat. 
31:My lyre is turned to mourning, and my pipe to the voice of those who weep. 
