1:"Call now; is there anyone who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn? 
2:Surely vexation kills the fool, and jealousy slays the simple. 
3:I have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling. 
4:His children are far from safety; they are crushed in the gate, and there is no one to deliver them. 
5:The hungry eat his harvest, and he takes it even out of thorns, and the thirsty pant after his wealth. 
6:For affliction does not come from the dust, nor does trouble sprout from the ground, 
7:but man is born to trouble as the sparks fly upward. 
8:"As for me, I would seek God, and to God would I commit my cause, 
9:who does great things and unsearchable, marvelous things without number: 
10:he gives rain on the earth and sends waters on the fields; 
11:he sets on high those who are lowly, and those who mourn are lifted to safety. 
12:He frustrates the devices of the crafty, so that their hands achieve no success. 
13:He catches the wise in their own craftiness, and the schemes of the wily are brought to a quick end. 
14:They meet with darkness in the daytime and grope at noonday as in the night. 
15:But he saves the needy from the sword of their mouth and from the hand of the mighty. 
16:So the poor have hope, and injustice shuts her mouth. 
17:"Behold, blessed is the one whom God reproves; therefore despise not the discipline of the Almighty. 
18:For he wounds, but he binds up; he shatters, but his hands heal. 
19:He will deliver you from six troubles; in seven no evil shall touch you. 
20:In famine he will redeem you from death, and in war from the power of the sword. 
21:You shall be hidden from the lash of the tongue, and shall not fear destruction when it comes. 
22:At destruction and famine you shall laugh, and shall not fear the beasts of the earth. 
23:For you shall be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with you. 
24:You shall know that your tent is at peace, and you shall inspect your fold and miss nothing. 
25:You shall know also that your offspring shall be many, and your descendants as the grass of the earth. 
26:You shall come to your grave in ripe old age, like a sheaf gathered up in its season. 
27:Behold, this we have searched out; it is true. Hear, and know it for your good." 
