1:Bless the LORD, O my soul! O LORD my God, you are very great! You are clothed with splendor and majesty, 
2:covering yourself with light as with a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. 
3:He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters; he makes the clouds his chariot; he rides on the wings of the wind; 
4:he makes his messengers winds, his ministers a flaming fire. 
5:He set the earth on its foundations, so that it should never be moved. 
6:You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains. 
7:At your rebuke they fled; at the sound of your thunder they took to flight. 
8:The mountains rose, the valleys sank down to the place that you appointed for them. 
9:You set a boundary that they may not pass, so that they might not again cover the earth. 
10:You make springs gush forth in the valleys; they flow between the hills; 
11:they give drink to every beast of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst. 
12:Beside them the birds of the heavens dwell; they sing among the branches. 
13:From your lofty abode you water the mountains; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of your work. 
14:You cause the grass to grow for the livestock and plants for man to cultivate, that he may bring forth food from the earth 
15:and wine to gladden the heart of man, oil to make his face shine and bread to strengthen man's heart. 
16:The trees of the LORD are watered abundantly, the cedars of Lebanon that he planted. 
17:In them the birds build their nests; the stork has her home in the fir trees. 
18:The high mountains are for the wild goats; the rocks are a refuge for the rock badgers. 
19:He made the moon to mark the seasons; the sun knows its time for setting. 
20:You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep about. 
21:The young lions roar for their prey, seeking their food from God. 
22:When the sun rises, they steal away and lie down in their dens. 
23:Man goes out to his work and to his labor until the evening. 
24:O LORD, how manifold are your works! In wisdom have you made them all; the earth is full of your creatures. 
25:Here is the sea, great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable, living things both small and great. 
26:There go the ships, and Leviathan, which you formed to play in it. 
27:These all look to you, to give them their food in due season. 
28:When you give it to them, they gather it up; when you open your hand, they are filled with good things. 
29:When you hide your face, they are dismayed; when you take away their breath, they die and return to their dust. 
30:When you send forth your Spirit, they are created, and you renew the face of the ground. 
31:May the glory of the LORD endure forever; may the LORD rejoice in his works, 
32:who looks on the earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains and they smoke! 
33:I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have being. 
34:May my meditation be pleasing to him, for I rejoice in the LORD. 
35:Let sinners be consumed from the earth, and let the wicked be no more! Bless the LORD, O my soul! Praise the LORD! 
