1:God shall arise, his enemies shall be scattered; and those who hate him shall flee before him! 
2:As smoke is driven away, so you shall drive them away; as wax melts before fire, so the wicked shall perish before God! 
3:But the righteous shall be glad; they shall exult before God; they shall be jubilant with joy! 
4:Sing to God, sing praises to his name; lift up a song to him who rides through the deserts; his name is the LORD; exult before him! 
5:Father of the fatherless and protector of widows is God in his holy habitation. 
6:God settles the solitary in a home; he leads out the prisoners to prosperity, but the rebellious dwell in a parched land. 
7:O God, when you went out before your people, when you marched through the wilderness, Selah 
8:the earth quaked, the heavens poured down rain, before God, the One of Sinai, before God, the God of Israel. 
9:Rain in abundance, O God, you shed abroad; you restored your inheritance as it languished; 
10:your flock found a dwelling in it; in your goodness, O God, you provided for the needy. 
11:The Lord gives the word; the women who announce the news are a great host: 
12:"The kings of the armies-they flee, they flee!" The women at home divide the spoil- 
13:though you men lie among the sheepfolds- the wings of a dove covered with silver, its pinions with shimmering gold. 
14:When the Almighty scatters kings there, let snow fall on Zalmon. 
15:O mountain of God, mountain of Bashan; O many-peaked mountain, mountain of Bashan! 
16:Why do you look with hatred, O many-peaked mountain, at the mount that God desired for his abode, yes, where the LORD will dwell forever? 
17:The chariots of God are twice ten thousand, thousands upon thousands; the Lord is among them; Sinai is now in the sanctuary. 
18:You ascended on high, leading a host of captives in your train and receiving gifts among men, even among the rebellious, that the LORD God may dwell there. 
19:Blessed be the Lord, who daily bears us up; God is our salvation. Selah 
20:Our God is a God of salvation, and to GOD, the Lord, belong deliverances from death. 
21:But God will strike the heads of his enemies, the hairy crown of him who walks in his guilty ways. 
22:The Lord said, "I will bring them back from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea, 
23:that you may strike your feet in their blood, that the tongues of your dogs may have their portion from the foe." 
24:Your procession is seen, O God, the procession of my God, my King, into the sanctuary- 
25:the singers in front, the musicians last, between them virgins playing tambourines: 
26:"Bless God in the great congregation, the LORD, O you who are of Israel's fountain!" 
27:There is Benjamin, the least of them, in the lead, the princes of Judah in their throng, the princes of Zebulun, the princes of Naphtali. 
28:Summon your power, O God, the power, O God, by which you have worked for us. 
29:Because of your temple at Jerusalem kings shall bear gifts to you. 
30:Rebuke the beasts that dwell among the reeds, the herd of bulls with the calves of the peoples. Trample underfoot those who lust after tribute; scatter the peoples who delight in war. 
31:Nobles shall come from Egypt; Cush shall hasten to stretch out her hands to God. 
32:O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God; sing praises to the Lord, Selah 
33:to him who rides in the heavens, the ancient heavens; behold, he sends out his voice, his mighty voice. 
34:Ascribe power to God, whose majesty is over Israel, and whose power is in the skies. 
35:Awesome is God from his sanctuary; the God of Israel-he is the one who gives power and strength to his people. Blessed be God! 
