1:"Can you draw out Leviathan with a fishhook or press down his tongue with a cord? 
2:Can you put a rope in his nose or pierce his jaw with a hook? 
3:Will he make many pleas to you? Will he speak to you soft words? 
4:Will he make a covenant with you to take him for your servant forever? 
5:Will you play with him as with a bird, or will you put him on a leash for your girls? 
6:Will traders bargain over him? Will they divide him up among the merchants? 
7:Can you fill his skin with harpoons or his head with fishing spears? 
8:Lay your hands on him; remember the battle-you will not do it again! 
9:Behold, the hope of a man is false; he is laid low even at the sight of him. 
10:No one is so fierce that he dares to stir him up. Who then is he who can stand before me? 
11:Who has first given to me, that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine. 
12:"I will not keep silence concerning his limbs, or his mighty strength, or his goodly frame. 
13:Who can strip off his outer garment? Who would come near him with a bridle? 
14:Who can open the doors of his face? Around his teeth is terror. 
15:His back is made of rows of shields, shut up closely as with a seal. 
16:One is so near to another that no air can come between them. 
17:They are joined one to another; they clasp each other and cannot be separated. 
18:His sneezings flash forth light, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the dawn. 
19:Out of his mouth go flaming torches; sparks of fire leap forth. 
20:Out of his nostrils comes forth smoke, as from a boiling pot and burning rushes. 
21:His breath kindles coals, and a flame comes forth from his mouth. 
22:In his neck abides strength, and terror dances before him. 
23:The folds of his flesh stick together, firmly cast on him and immovable. 
24:His heart is hard as a stone, hard as the lower millstone. 
25:When he raises himself up the mighty are afraid; at the crashing they are beside themselves. 
26:Though the sword reaches him, it does not avail, nor the spear, the dart, or the javelin. 
27:He counts iron as straw, and bronze as rotten wood. 
28:The arrow cannot make him flee; for him sling stones are turned to stubble. 
29:Clubs are counted as stubble; he laughs at the rattle of javelins. 
30:His underparts are like sharp potsherds; he spreads himself like a threshing sledge on the mire. 
31:He makes the deep boil like a pot; he makes the sea like a pot of ointment. 
32:Behind him he leaves a shining wake; one would think the deep to be white-haired. 
33:On earth there is not his like, a creature without fear. 
34:He sees everything that is high; he is king over all the sons of pride." 
