1:The Mighty One, God the LORD, speaks and summons the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting. 
2:Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God shines forth. 
3:Our God comes; he does not keep silence; before him is a devouring fire, around him a mighty tempest. 
4:He calls to the heavens above and to the earth, that he may judge his people: 
5:"Gather to me my faithful ones, who made a covenant with me by sacrifice!" 
6:The heavens declare his righteousness, for God himself is judge! Selah 
7:"Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify against you. I am God, your God. 
8:Not for your sacrifices do I rebuke you; your burnt offerings are continually before me. 
9:I will not accept a bull from your house or goats from your folds. 
10:For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills. 
11:I know all the birds of the hills, and all that moves in the field is mine. 
12:"If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and its fullness are mine. 
13:Do I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? 
14:Offer to God a sacrifice of thanksgiving, and perform your vows to the Most High, 
15:and call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me." 
16:But to the wicked God says: "What right have you to recite my statutes or take my covenant on your lips? 
17:For you hate discipline, and you cast my words behind you. 
18:If you see a thief, you are pleased with him, and you keep company with adulterers. 
19:"You give your mouth free rein for evil, and your tongue frames deceit. 
20:You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son. 
21:These things you have done, and I have been silent; you thought that I was one like yourself. But now I rebuke you and lay the charge before you. 
22:"Mark this, then, you who forget God, lest I tear you apart, and there be none to deliver! 
23:The one who offers thanksgiving as his sacrifice glorifies me; to one who orders his way rightly I will show the salvation of God!" 
