1:Now Sarai, Abram's wife, had borne him no children. She had a female Egyptian servant whose name was Hagar.
2:And Sarai said to Abram, "Behold now, the LORD has prevented me from bearing children. Go in to my servant; it may be that I shall obtain children by her." And Abram listened to the voice of Sarai.
3:So, after Abram had lived ten years in the land of Canaan, Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar the Egyptian, her servant, and gave her to Abram her husband as a wife.
4:And he went in to Hagar, and she conceived. And when she saw that she had conceived, she looked with contempt on her mistress.
5:And Sarai said to Abram, "May the wrong done to me be on you! I gave my servant to your embrace, and when she saw that she had conceived, she looked on me with contempt. May the LORD judge between you and me!"
6:But Abram said to Sarai, "Behold, your servant is in your power; do to her as you please." Then Sarai dealt harshly with her, and she fled from her.
7:The angel of the LORD found her by a spring of water in the wilderness, the spring on the way to Shur.
8:And he said, "Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from and where are you going?" She said, "I am fleeing from my mistress Sarai."
9:The angel of the LORD said to her, "Return to your mistress and submit to her."
10:The angel of the LORD also said to her, "I will surely multiply your offspring so that they cannot be numbered for multitude."
11:And the angel of the LORD said to her, "Behold, you are pregnant and shall bear a son. You shall call his name Ishmael, because the LORD has listened to your affliction. 
12:He shall be a wild donkey of a man, his hand against everyone and everyone's hand against him, and he shall dwell over against all his kinsmen." 
13:So she called the name of the LORD who spoke to her, "You are a God of seeing," for she said, "Truly here I have seen him who looks after me."
14:Therefore the well was called Beer-lahai-roi; it lies between Kadesh and Bered.
15:And Hagar bore Abram a son, and Abram called the name of his son, whom Hagar bore, Ishmael.
16:Abram was eighty-six years old when Hagar bore Ishmael to Abram.
