1:Praise the LORD! Oh give thanks to the LORD, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever! 
2:Who can utter the mighty deeds of the LORD, or declare all his praise? 
3:Blessed are they who observe justice, who do righteousness at all times! 
4:Remember me, O LORD, when you show favor to your people; help me when you save them, 
5:that I may look upon the prosperity of your chosen ones, that I may rejoice in the gladness of your nation, that I may glory with your inheritance. 
6:Both we and our fathers have sinned; we have committed iniquity; we have done wickedness. 
7:Our fathers, when they were in Egypt, did not consider your wondrous works; they did not remember the abundance of your steadfast love, but rebelled by the sea, at the Red Sea. 
8:Yet he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make known his mighty power. 
9:He rebuked the Red Sea, and it became dry, and he led them through the deep as through a desert. 
10:So he saved them from the hand of the foe and redeemed them from the power of the enemy. 
11:And the waters covered their adversaries; not one of them was left. 
12:Then they believed his words; they sang his praise. 
13:But they soon forgot his works; they did not wait for his counsel. 
14:But they had a wanton craving in the wilderness, and put God to the test in the desert; 
15:he gave them what they asked, but sent a wasting disease among them. 
16:When men in the camp were jealous of Moses and Aaron, the holy one of the LORD, 
17:the earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram. 
18:Fire also broke out in their company; the flame burned up the wicked. 
19:They made a calf in Horeb and worshiped a metal image. 
20:They exchanged the glory of God for the image of an ox that eats grass. 
21:They forgot God, their Savior, who had done great things in Egypt, 
22:wondrous works in the land of Ham, and awesome deeds by the Red Sea. 
23:Therefore he said he would destroy them- had not Moses, his chosen one, stood in the breach before him, to turn away his wrath from destroying them. 
24:Then they despised the pleasant land, having no faith in his promise. 
25:They murmured in their tents, and did not obey the voice of the LORD. 
26:Therefore he raised his hand and swore to them that he would make them fall in the wilderness, 
27:and would make their offspring fall among the nations, scattering them among the lands. 
28:Then they yoked themselves to the Baal of Peor, and ate sacrifices offered to the dead; 
29:they provoked the LORD to anger with their deeds, and a plague broke out among them. 
30:Then Phinehas stood up and intervened, and the plague was stayed. 
31:And that was counted to him as righteousness from generation to generation forever. 
32:They angered him at the waters of Meribah, and it went ill with Moses on their account, 
33:for they made his spirit bitter, and he spoke rashly with his lips. 
34:They did not destroy the peoples, as the LORD commanded them, 
35:but they mixed with the nations and learned to do as they did. 
36:They served their idols, which became a snare to them. 
37:They sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons; 
38:they poured out innocent blood, the blood of their sons and daughters, whom they sacrificed to the idols of Canaan, and the land was polluted with blood. 
39:Thus they became unclean by their acts, and played the whore in their deeds. 
40:Then the anger of the LORD was kindled against his people, and he abhorred his heritage; 
41:he gave them into the hand of the nations, so that those who hated them ruled over them. 
42:Their enemies oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their power. 
43:Many times he delivered them, but they were rebellious in their purposes and were brought low through their iniquity. 
44:Nevertheless, he looked upon their distress, when he heard their cry. 
45:For their sake he remembered his covenant, and relented according to the abundance of his steadfast love. 
46:He caused them to be pitied by all those who held them captive. 
47:Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the nations, that we may give thanks to your holy name and glory in your praise. 
48:Blessed be the LORD, the God of Israel, from everlasting to everlasting! And let all the people say, "Amen!" Praise the LORD! 
