1:The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
2:Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth; for the LORD has spoken: "Children have I reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. 
3:The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib, but Israel does not know, my people do not understand." 
4:Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly! They have forsaken the LORD, they have despised the Holy One of Israel, they are utterly estranged. 
5:Why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint. 
6:From the sole of the foot even to the head, there is no soundness in it, but bruises and sores and raw wounds; they are not pressed out or bound up or softened with oil. 
7:Your country lies desolate; your cities are burned with fire; in your very presence foreigners devour your land; it is desolate, as overthrown by foreigners. 
8:And the daughter of Zion is left like a booth in a vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber field, like a besieged city. 
9:If the LORD of hosts had not left us a few survivors, we should have been like Sodom, and become like Gomorrah. 
10:Hear the word of the LORD, you rulers of Sodom! Give ear to the teaching of our God, you people of Gomorrah! 
11:"What to me is the multitude of your sacrifices? says the LORD; I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams and the fat of well-fed beasts; I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats. 
12:"When you come to appear before me, who has required of you this trampling of my courts? 
13:Bring no more vain offerings; incense is an abomination to me. New moon and Sabbath and the calling of convocations- I cannot endure iniquity and solemn assembly. 
14:Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates; they have become a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them. 
15:When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you; even though you make many prayers, I will not listen; your hands are full of blood. 
16:Wash yourselves; make yourselves clean; remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes; cease to do evil, 
17:learn to do good; seek justice, correct oppression; bring justice to the fatherless, plead the widow's cause. 
18:"Come now, let us reason together, says the LORD: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. 
19:If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land; 
20:but if you refuse and rebel, you shall be eaten by the sword; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken." 
21:How the faithful city has become a whore, she who was full of justice! Righteousness lodged in her, but now murderers. 
22:Your silver has become dross, your best wine mixed with water. 
23:Your princes are rebels and companions of thieves. Everyone loves a bribe and runs after gifts. They do not bring justice to the fatherless, and the widow's cause does not come to them. 
24:Therefore the Lord declares, the LORD of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel: "Ah, I will get relief from my enemies and avenge myself on my foes. 
25:I will turn my hand against you and will smelt away your dross as with lye and remove all your alloy. 
26:And I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning. Afterward you shall be called the city of righteousness, the faithful city." 
27:Zion shall be redeemed by justice, and those in her who repent, by righteousness. 
28:But rebels and sinners shall be broken together, and those who forsake the LORD shall be consumed. 
29:For they shall be ashamed of the oaks that you desired; and you shall blush for the gardens that you have chosen. 
30:For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden without water. 
31:And the strong shall become tinder, and his work a spark, and both of them shall burn together, with none to quench them. 
