1:"You shall make the altar of acacia wood, five cubits long and five cubits broad. The altar shall be square, and its height shall be three cubits.
2:And you shall make horns for it on its four corners; its horns shall be of one piece with it, and you shall overlay it with bronze.
3:You shall make pots for it to receive its ashes, and shovels and basins and forks and fire pans. You shall make all its utensils of bronze.
4:You shall also make for it a grating, a network of bronze, and on the net you shall make four bronze rings at its four corners.
5:And you shall set it under the ledge of the altar so that the net extends halfway down the altar.
6:And you shall make poles for the altar, poles of acacia wood, and overlay them with bronze.
7:And the poles shall be put through the rings, so that the poles are on the two sides of the altar when it is carried.
8:You shall make it hollow, with boards. As it has been shown you on the mountain, so shall it be made.
9:"You shall make the court of the tabernacle. On the south side the court shall have hangings of fine twined linen a hundred cubits long for one side.
10:Its twenty pillars and their twenty bases shall be of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
11:And likewise for its length on the north side there shall be hangings a hundred cubits long, its pillars twenty and their bases twenty, of bronze, but the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.
12:And for the breadth of the court on the west side there shall be hangings for fifty cubits, with ten pillars and ten bases.
13:The breadth of the court on the front to the east shall be fifty cubits.
14:The hangings for the one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and three bases.
15:On the other side the hangings shall be fifteen cubits, with their three pillars and three bases.
16:For the gate of the court there shall be a screen twenty cubits long, of blue and purple and scarlet yarns and fine twined linen, embroidered with needlework. It shall have four pillars and with them four bases.
17:All the pillars around the court shall be filleted with silver. Their hooks shall be of silver, and their bases of bronze.
18:The length of the court shall be a hundred cubits, the breadth fifty, and the height five cubits, with hangings of fine twined linen and bases of bronze.
19:All the utensils of the tabernacle for every use, and all its pegs and all the pegs of the court, shall be of bronze.
20:"You shall command the people of Israel that they bring to you pure beaten olive oil for the light, that a lamp may regularly be set up to burn.
21:In the tent of meeting, outside the veil that is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall tend it from evening to morning before the LORD. It shall be a statute forever to be observed throughout their generations by the people of Israel.
