1:A wise son hears his father's instruction, but a scoffer does not listen to rebuke. 
2:From the fruit of his mouth a man eats what is good, but the desire of the treacherous is for violence. 
3:Whoever guards his mouth preserves his life; he who opens wide his lips comes to ruin. 
4:The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, while the soul of the diligent is richly supplied. 
5:The righteous hates falsehood, but the wicked brings shame and disgrace. 
6:Righteousness guards him whose way is blameless, but sin overthrows the wicked. 
7:One pretends to be rich, yet has nothing; another pretends to be poor, yet has great wealth. 
8:The ransom of a man's life is his wealth, but a poor man hears no threat. 
9:The light of the righteous rejoices, but the lamp of the wicked will be put out. 
10:By insolence comes nothing but strife, but with those who take advice is wisdom. 
11:Wealth gained hastily will dwindle, but whoever gathers little by little will increase it. 
12:Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a desire fulfilled is a tree of life. 
13:Whoever despises the word brings destruction on himself, but he who reveres the commandment will be rewarded. 
14:The teaching of the wise is a fountain of life, that one may turn away from the snares of death. 
15:Good sense wins favor, but the way of the treacherous is their ruin. 
16:In everything the prudent acts with knowledge, but a fool flaunts his folly. 
17:A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful envoy brings healing. 
18:Poverty and disgrace come to him who ignores instruction, but whoever heeds reproof is honored. 
19:A desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but to turn away from evil is an abomination to fools. 
20:Whoever walks with the wise becomes wise, but the companion of fools will suffer harm. 
21:Disaster pursues sinners, but the righteous are rewarded with good. 
22:A good man leaves an inheritance to his children's children, but the sinner's wealth is laid up for the righteous. 
23:The fallow ground of the poor would yield much food, but it is swept away through injustice. 
24:Whoever spares the rod hates his son, but he who loves him is diligent to discipline him. 
25:The righteous has enough to satisfy his appetite, but the belly of the wicked suffers want. 
