1:The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son is a sorrow to his mother. 
2:Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death. 
3:The LORD does not let the righteous go hungry, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked. 
4:A slack hand causes poverty, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. 
5:He who gathers in summer is a prudent son, but he who sleeps in harvest is a son who brings shame. 
6:Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. 
7:The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the name of the wicked will rot. 
8:The wise of heart will receive commandments, but a babbling fool will come to ruin. 
9:Whoever walks in integrity walks securely, but he who makes his ways crooked will be found out. 
10:Whoever winks the eye causes trouble, but a babbling fool will come to ruin. 
11:The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. 
12:Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses. 
13:On the lips of him who has understanding, wisdom is found, but a rod is for the back of him who lacks sense. 
14:The wise lay up knowledge, but the mouth of a fool brings ruin near. 
15:A rich man's wealth is his strong city; the poverty of the poor is their ruin. 
16:The wage of the righteous leads to life, the gain of the wicked to sin. 
17:Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he who rejects reproof leads others astray. 
18:The one who conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever utters slander is a fool. 
19:When words are many, transgression is not lacking, but whoever restrains his lips is prudent. 
20:The tongue of the righteous is choice silver; the heart of the wicked is of little worth. 
21:The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of sense. 
22:The blessing of the LORD makes rich, and he adds no sorrow with it. 
23:Doing wrong is like a joke to a fool, but wisdom is pleasure to a man of understanding. 
24:What the wicked dreads will come upon him, but the desire of the righteous will be granted. 
25:When the tempest passes, the wicked is no more, but the righteous is established forever. 
26:Like vinegar to the teeth and smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him. 
27:The fear of the LORD prolongs life, but the years of the wicked will be short. 
28:The hope of the righteous brings joy, but the expectation of the wicked will perish. 
29:The way of the LORD is a stronghold to the blameless, but destruction to evildoers. 
30:The righteous will never be removed, but the wicked will not dwell in the land. 
31:The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be cut off. 
32:The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable, but the mouth of the wicked, what is perverse. 
