1:Fret not yourself because of evildoers; be not envious of wrongdoers! 
2:For they will soon fade like the grass and wither like the green herb. 
3:Trust in the LORD, and do good; dwell in the land and befriend faithfulness. 
4:Delight yourself in the LORD, and he will give you the desires of your heart. 
5:Commit your way to the LORD; trust in him, and he will act. 
6:He will bring forth your righteousness as the light, and your justice as the noonday. 
7:Be still before the LORD and wait patiently for him; fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices! 
8:Refrain from anger, and forsake wrath! Fret not yourself; it tends only to evil. 
9:For the evildoers shall be cut off, but those who wait for the LORD shall inherit the land. 
10:In just a little while, the wicked will be no more; though you look carefully at his place, he will not be there. 
11:But the meek shall inherit the land and delight themselves in abundant peace. 
12:The wicked plots against the righteous and gnashes his teeth at him, 
13:but the Lord laughs at the wicked, for he sees that his day is coming. 
14:The wicked draw the sword and bend their bows to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those whose way is upright; 
15:their sword shall enter their own heart, and their bows shall be broken. 
16:Better is the little that the righteous has than the abundance of many wicked. 
17:For the arms of the wicked shall be broken, but the LORD upholds the righteous. 
18:The LORD knows the days of the blameless, and their heritage will remain forever; 
19:they are not put to shame in evil times; in the days of famine they have abundance. 
20:But the wicked will perish; the enemies of the LORD are like the glory of the pastures; they vanish-like smoke they vanish away. 
21:The wicked borrows but does not pay back, but the righteous is generous and gives; 
22:for those blessed by the LORD shall inherit the land, but those cursed by him shall be cut off. 
23:The steps of a man are established by the LORD, when he delights in his way; 
24:though he fall, he shall not be cast headlong, for the LORD upholds his hand. 
25:I have been young, and now am old, yet I have not seen the righteous forsaken or his children begging for bread. 
26:He is ever lending generously, and his children become a blessing. 
27:Turn away from evil and do good; so shall you dwell forever. 
28:For the LORD loves justice; he will not forsake his saints. They are preserved forever, but the children of the wicked shall be cut off. 
29:The righteous shall inherit the land and dwell upon it forever. 
30:The mouth of the righteous utters wisdom, and his tongue speaks justice. 
31:The law of his God is in his heart; his steps do not slip. 
32:The wicked watches for the righteous and seeks to put him to death. 
33:The LORD will not abandon him to his power or let him be condemned when he is brought to trial. 
34:Wait for the LORD and keep his way, and he will exalt you to inherit the land; you will look on when the wicked are cut off. 
35:I have seen a wicked, ruthless man, spreading himself like a green laurel tree. 
36:But he passed away, and behold, he was no more; though I sought him, he could not be found. 
37:Mark the blameless and behold the upright, for there is a future for the man of peace. 
38:But transgressors shall be altogether destroyed; the future of the wicked shall be cut off. 
39:The salvation of the righteous is from the LORD; he is their stronghold in the time of trouble. 
40:The LORD helps them and delivers them; he delivers them from the wicked and saves them, because they take refuge in him. 
