1:"But now, hear my speech, O Job, and listen to all my words. 
2:Behold, I open my mouth; the tongue in my mouth speaks. 
3:My words declare the uprightness of my heart, and what my lips know they speak sincerely. 
4:The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life. 
5:Answer me, if you can; set your words in order before me; take your stand. 
6:Behold, I am toward God as you are; I too was pinched off from a piece of clay. 
7:Behold, no fear of me need terrify you; my pressure will not be heavy upon you. 
8:"Surely you have spoken in my ears, and I have heard the sound of your words. 
9:You say, 'I am pure, without transgression; I am clean, and there is no iniquity in me. 
10:Behold, he finds occasions against me, he counts me as his enemy, 
11:he puts my feet in the stocks and watches all my paths.' 
12:"Behold, in this you are not right. I will answer you, for God is greater than man. 
13:Why do you contend against him, saying, 'He will answer none of man's words'? 
14:For God speaks in one way, and in two, though man does not perceive it. 
15:In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falls on men, while they slumber on their beds, 
16:then he opens the ears of men and terrifies them with warnings, 
17:that he may turn man aside from his deed and conceal pride from a man; 
18:he keeps back his soul from the pit, his life from perishing by the sword. 
19:"Man is also rebuked with pain on his bed and with continual strife in his bones, 
20:so that his life loathes bread, and his appetite the choicest food. 
21:His flesh is so wasted away that it cannot be seen, and his bones that were not seen stick out. 
22:His soul draws near the pit, and his life to those who bring death. 
23:If there be for him an angel, a mediator, one of the thousand, to declare to man what is right for him, 
24:and he is merciful to him, and says, 'Deliver him from going down into the pit; I have found a ransom; 
25:let his flesh become fresh with youth; let him return to the days of his youthful vigor'; 
26:then man prays to God, and he accepts him; he sees his face with a shout of joy, and he restores to man his righteousness. 
27:He sings before men and says: 'I sinned and perverted what was right, and it was not repaid to me. 
28:He has redeemed my soul from going down into the pit, and my life shall look upon the light.' 
29:"Behold, God does all these things, twice, three times, with a man, 
30:to bring back his soul from the pit, that he may be lighted with the light of life. 
31:Pay attention, O Job, listen to me; be silent, and I will speak. 
32:If you have any words, answer me; speak, for I desire to justify you. 
33:If not, listen to me; be silent, and I will teach you wisdom." 
