1:Benjamin fathered Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, Aharah the third,
2:Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
3:And Bela had sons: Addar, Gera, Abihud,
4:Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
5:Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.
6:These are the sons of Ehud (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Geba, and they were carried into exile to Manahath):
7:Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, that is, Heglam, who fathered Uzza and Ahihud.
8:And Shaharaim fathered sons in the country of Moab after he had sent away Hushim and Baara his wives.
9:He fathered sons by Hodesh his wife: Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malcam,
10:Jeuz, Sachia, and Mirmah. These were his sons, heads of fathers' houses.
11:He also fathered sons by Hushim: Abitub and Elpaal.
12:The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, and Shemed, who built Ono and Lod with its towns,
13:and Beriah and Shema (they were heads of fathers' houses of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who caused the inhabitants of Gath to flee);
14:and Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth.
15:Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
16:Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were sons of Beriah.
17:Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
18:Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
19:Jakim, Zichri, Zabdi,
20:Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
21:Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
22:Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
23:Abdon, Zichri, Hanan,
24:Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
25:Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
26:Shamsherai, Shehariah, Athaliah,
27:Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zichri were the sons of Jeroham.
28:These were the heads of fathers' houses, according to their generations, chief men. These lived in Jerusalem.
29:Jeiel the father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon, and the name of his wife was Maacah.
30:His firstborn son: Abdon, then Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,
31:Gedor, Ahio, Zecher,
32:and Mikloth (he fathered Shimeah). Now these also lived opposite their kinsmen in Jerusalem, with their kinsmen.
33:Ner was the father of Kish, Kish of Saul, Saul of Jonathan, Malchi-shua, Abinadab and Eshbaal;
34:and the son of Jonathan was Merib-baal; and Merib-baal was the father of Micah.
35:The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
36:Ahaz fathered Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri fathered Moza.
37:Moza fathered Binea; Raphah was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.
38:Azel had six sons, and these are their names: Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
39:The sons of Eshek his brother: Ulam his firstborn, Jeush the second, and Eliphelet the third.
40:The sons of Ulam were men who were mighty warriors, bowmen, having many sons and grandsons, 150. All these were Benjaminites.
