1:Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said:
2:"Can a man be profitable to God? Surely he who is wise is profitable to himself. 
3:Is it any pleasure to the Almighty if you are in the right, or is it gain to him if you make your ways blameless? 
4:Is it for your fear of him that he reproves you and enters into judgment with you? 
5:Is not your evil abundant? There is no end to your iniquities. 
6:For you have exacted pledges of your brothers for nothing and stripped the naked of their clothing. 
7:You have given no water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry. 
8:The man with power possessed the land, and the favored man lived in it. 
9:You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless were crushed. 
10:Therefore snares are all around you, and sudden terror overwhelms you, 
11:or darkness, so that you cannot see, and a flood of water covers you. 
12:"Is not God high in the heavens? See the highest stars, how lofty they are! 
13:But you say, 'What does God know? Can he judge through the deep darkness? 
14:Thick clouds veil him, so that he does not see, and he walks on the vault of heaven.' 
15:Will you keep to the old way that wicked men have trod? 
16:They were snatched away before their time; their foundation was washed away. 
17:They said to God, 'Depart from us,' and 'What can the Almighty do to us?' 
18:Yet he filled their houses with good things- but the counsel of the wicked is far from me. 
19:The righteous see it and are glad; the innocent one mocks at them, 
20:saying, 'Surely our adversaries are cut off, and what they left the fire has consumed.' 
21:"Agree with God, and be at peace; thereby good will come to you. 
22:Receive instruction from his mouth, and lay up his words in your heart. 
23:If you return to the Almighty you will be built up; if you remove injustice far from your tents, 
24:if you lay gold in the dust, and gold of Ophir among the stones of the torrent-bed, 
25:then the Almighty will be your gold and your precious silver. 
26:For then you will delight yourself in the Almighty and lift up your face to God. 
27:You will make your prayer to him, and he will hear you, and you will pay your vows. 
28:You will decide on a matter, and it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways. 
29:For when they are humbled you say, 'It is because of pride'; but he saves the lowly. 
30:He delivers even the one who is not innocent, who will be delivered through the cleanness of your hands." 
