1:O God, why do you cast us off forever? Why does your anger smoke against the sheep of your pasture? 
2:Remember your congregation, which you have purchased of old, which you have redeemed to be the tribe of your heritage! Remember Mount Zion, where you have dwelt. 
3:Direct your steps to the perpetual ruins; the enemy has destroyed everything in the sanctuary! 
4:Your foes have roared in the midst of your meeting place; they set up their own signs for signs. 
5:They were like those who swing axes in a forest of trees. 
6:And all its carved wood they broke down with hatchets and hammers. 
7:They set your sanctuary on fire; they profaned the dwelling place of your name, bringing it down to the ground. 
8:They said to themselves, "We will utterly subdue them"; they burned all the meeting places of God in the land. 
9:We do not see our signs; there is no longer any prophet, and there is none among us who knows how long. 
10:How long, O God, is the foe to scoff? Is the enemy to revile your name forever? 
11:Why do you hold back your hand, your right hand? Take it from the fold of your garment and destroy them! 
12:Yet God my King is from of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth. 
13:You divided the sea by your might; you broke the heads of the sea monsters on the waters. 
14:You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you gave him as food for the creatures of the wilderness. 
15:You split open springs and brooks; you dried up ever-flowing streams. 
16:Yours is the day, yours also the night; you have established the heavenly lights and the sun. 
17:You have fixed all the boundaries of the earth; you have made summer and winter. 
18:Remember this, O LORD, how the enemy scoffs, and a foolish people reviles your name. 
19:Do not deliver the soul of your dove to the wild beasts; do not forget the life of your poor forever. 
20:Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the land are full of the habitations of violence. 
21:Let not the downtrodden turn back in shame; let the poor and needy praise your name. 
22:Arise, O God, defend your cause; remember how the foolish scoff at you all the day! 
23:Do not forget the clamor of your foes, the uproar of those who rise against you, which goes up continually! 
