1:Oh give thanks to the LORD; call upon his name; make known his deeds among the peoples! 
2:Sing to him, sing praises to him; tell of all his wondrous works! 
3:Glory in his holy name; let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice! 
4:Seek the LORD and his strength; seek his presence continually! 
5:Remember the wondrous works that he has done, his miracles, and the judgments he uttered, 
6:O offspring of Abraham, his servant, children of Jacob, his chosen ones! 
7:He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth. 
8:He remembers his covenant forever, the word that he commanded, for a thousand generations, 
9:the covenant that he made with Abraham, his sworn promise to Isaac, 
10:which he confirmed to Jacob as a statute, to Israel as an everlasting covenant, 
11:saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan as your portion for an inheritance." 
12:When they were few in number, of little account, and sojourners in it, 
13:wandering from nation to nation, from one kingdom to another people, 
14:he allowed no one to oppress them; he rebuked kings on their account, 
15:saying, "Touch not my anointed ones, do my prophets no harm!" 
16:When he summoned a famine on the land and broke all supply of bread, 
17:he had sent a man ahead of them, Joseph, who was sold as a slave. 
18:His feet were hurt with fetters; his neck was put in a collar of iron; 
19:until what he had said came to pass, the word of the LORD tested him. 
20:The king sent and released him; the ruler of the peoples set him free; 
21:he made him lord of his house and ruler of all his possessions, 
22:to bind his princes at his pleasure and to teach his elders wisdom. 
23:Then Israel came to Egypt; Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham. 
24:And the LORD made his people very fruitful and made them stronger than their foes. 
25:He turned their hearts to hate his people, to deal craftily with his servants. 
26:He sent Moses, his servant, and Aaron, whom he had chosen. 
27:They performed his signs among them and miracles in the land of Ham. 
28:He sent darkness, and made the land dark; they did not rebel against his words. 
29:He turned their waters into blood and caused their fish to die. 
30:Their land swarmed with frogs, even in the chambers of their kings. 
31:He spoke, and there came swarms of flies, and gnats throughout their country. 
32:He gave them hail for rain, and fiery lightning bolts through their land. 
33:He struck down their vines and fig trees, and shattered the trees of their country. 
34:He spoke, and the locusts came, young locusts without number, 
35:which devoured all the vegetation in their land and ate up the fruit of their ground. 
36:He struck down all the firstborn in their land, the firstfruits of all their strength. 
37:Then he brought out Israel with silver and gold, and there was none among his tribes who stumbled. 
38:Egypt was glad when they departed, for dread of them had fallen upon it. 
39:He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light by night. 
40:They asked, and he brought quail, and gave them bread from heaven in abundance. 
41:He opened the rock, and water gushed out; it flowed through the desert like a river. 
42:For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham, his servant. 
43:So he brought his people out with joy, his chosen ones with singing. 
44:And he gave them the lands of the nations, and they took possession of the fruit of the peoples' toil, 
45:that they might keep his statutes and observe his laws. Praise the LORD! 
